# Attribution Reporting API

Feb 7, 2022 @ 8-9am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy

Previous meetings: https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings

Meeting issue: https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80

* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join W3C and WICG if you plan on participating

# Agenda

Add agenda topics here!


* Chair: John Delaney
* Scribe volunteer: Charlie Harrison
* Charlie Harrison: quick update on my availability
* Reminder: PATCG meeting later this week: https://github.com/patcg/meetings/tree/main/2022/02/09-telecon
* Developer facing topics
    * John Delaney: Updates to the event-level and aggregate explainers (Blogpost)
    * OT: A new origin trial with the new version of the API will be started in Chrome in the future.
    As some of these changes are not backward-compatible with the previous version of the API — If you were experimenting 
    with the API, you'll need to edit your code and use a new origin trial token for your experiment to continue working and 
    to leverage new features such as view-through measurement. Migration guidance will be made available. 
    We'll send more information on this soon, once code with the new version of the API starts being available in Chrome.
* Reminder to join the developer mailing list for OT-related announcements, if you're interested in experimenting with the API

# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

1. Wendell Baker (Yahoo)
2. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
3. Erik Anderson (Microsoft Edge)
4. Brian May (dstillery)
5. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
6. Christina Ilvento (Google Chrome)
7. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
8. Maud Nalpas (Google Chrome)
9. Phillipp Schoppmann (Google)
10. Russell Stringham (Adobe)
11. Martin Pal (Google Chrome)
12. Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
13. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
14. Joel Pfeiffer (MSFT)
15. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
16. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
17. Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
18. Alex Turner (Google Chrome)
19. Manny Isu (Google Chrome)
20. Przemyslaw Iwanczak (RTB House)
21. Mariana Raykova (Google)

# Notes


## (John Delaney) Presentation on explainer updates


* John: Two weeks ago published changes to event-level and aggregate explainers, added a bunch of new features and changes to existing features
    * Slide deck (https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sza0DHJK7PPgszuiF19zysuT6AjWAWoKsRu8OTA44ZM/edit#slide=id.p)
    * Two explainers updated (EVENT.md, AGGREGATE.md)
    * View-through / Clicks merged
    * Maud has an overview of the changes in developer.chrome.com: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-changes-january-2022/
    * Use as a source of truth
    * Event-level changes
    * Randomized response
    * All attribution reports are subject to randomized response, not just views
    * This means that some % of the time, some real conversions will be suppressed / some fake conversions added
    * Some kind of plausible deniability with every report
    * Why? Unifies the privacy mechanims for clicks / views. Simpler to reason about than combined randomization on just the metadata
    * Sets up a privacy framework s.t. With the right noise settings, could ensure that no party can rely on the API to know with certainty than an individual user has converted (or not) for a certain ad
* Brian: Want some kinds of threshold when we can be confident in the data
* John: we have published some new noise correcting utility
* Charlie: yes the utility should be able to provide corrected / debiased agg data
* Brian: possible to get some kind of agg report that told us, certain number of events happened, perhaps with noise
* Charlie: possible with aggregate reports
* John: Response-based registration
    * Previous: anchor tag on the page with annotation. Clicking on the ad pulls the attribute off the element
    * New design: same end result, but doesn’t pull attributes directly from HTML element. Now, HTTP req in between. Browser requests an annotated URL, which returns back headers which register the events
    * Also included now, the HTTP request tells you whether it’s a click or a view
    * Also making this change for triggers. Previously, hacky redirect to a .well-known. This is going away, now there is a separate ping + header
    * New JS API as well
    * Why
    * Security improvements. Reporting origin in previous design never consents to registering events
    * Partially mitigates fraud concerns with a genuine browser
    * Future attribute/input changes can be implemented purely server-side. Longer term, an easier API surface
* Brian May: When I initially looked at this, concerned this will open up problems with timing attacks. Calls going out to parties with fair amount of data in it.
* John: In the current design, data being sent is just data scoped to a first party, no different than embedding a resource on your page / loading ad-tech code. Same level of information embedded. Not really “new” / cross-site information.
* Brian: makes sense, but still doesn’t feel quite right.
* John: all of the changes have linked issue’s in Maud’s post, feel free to chime in / file issues
* Maud: Wanted to mention that for event-level reports, triggered data is 3 bits, the slide is 64 bits
* John: yes it should be 3 bits
* John: Response-based registration & multiple parties
    * Ad-tech can redirect network requests to other ad-tech servers, allows other ad-techs to perform their own source and trigger registration
    * Reporting origins no longer have a shared privacy limit (e.g. # of reports per window). This is to avoid a problem where it’s hard to track a global budget fairly
    * Limits on reporting origins
    * Explicit limits how many parties can measure events between two sites
    * Max reporting origins per {publisher, advertiser} capped to 100 / 30 days, per unattributed source
    * Max reporting origins per {publisher, advertiser} capped to 10 / 30 days, counted per attributed conversion
* Brian May: How did we figure out the numbers?
* Charlie: Somewhat arbitrary but we are focusing on adoptability, we are looking for feedback
* John: Filtering triggering events
    * New API allows a reporting origin to filter triggering events based on impression-side metadata
    * New field “source data”. Arbitrary data ad-tech provides at source time
    * “Conversion_subdomain”, “product”
    * Can be later used on the trigger side to filter (i.e. drop) the trigger event
    * “Attribtuion-Reporting-Filters” header which causes the browser to filter the trigger event if it doesn’t match
    * E.g. matching the “conversion_subdomain”
    * Events wont take up any of the rate limits, avoid false conversions
    * Filtering trigger data
    * E.g. set trigger data based on whether the source was a click / view
    * Dynamically set trigger data using a combination of impression / conversion information
    * Powerful mechanism to give more control about what kinds of reports get created, also removes the separate trigger data for clicks vs. views, unified mechanism
    * We hope to have some tools to help understand how this works in more detail.
    * That’s about it for event-level changes
    * Moving on to aggregate
    * Name changes
    * Aggregate reports → summary reports, output of aggregation of multiple “aggregatable reports”
    * Feedback welcome on all names, etc. in this preso :)
    * No worklet
    * Moved away from the worklet based API
    * Use the new response-header mechanism with the filtering functionality
    * Lots of reasons why
    * easier browser implementation
    * Devs already familiar with response headers / json. Worklets are new and have a high bar (requires JS). Worklets are fairly new on the web
    * Robustness, new design can easily integrate with things like `keepalive` semantics.
    * New design, similar to what we’ve discussed earlier
    * “Attribution-Reporting-Register-Aggregatable-Source”
    * Declare key names, key pieces
    * Generate 128 bit integer bucket IDs
    * Construct keys iteratively, first with source data, then with conversion data
    * Aggregatable values attach “value” to each named key
    * Lots of extra information in Maud’s ppost
* Brian May: How much info will I be getting?
* John: You are in complete control of the URL in the request that ends up setting this response header. Any first party info is fair game
* Charlie: Also the filtering allows generating keys using a combination of publisher / advertiser info
* John: Debugging
    * One piece of feedback we received, it’s difficult to tell if you are measuring the correct things. Event-level reports send coarse data from the conversion-side. Hard to compare to cookie-based measurement
    * Wanted to give devs an easier way to compare with cookie data while 3p cookies are available in Chrome.
    * Previously, no way to join the full fidelity source / trigger event.
    * Now, new proposal to learn with full fidelity the source / trigger event if you have a special cookie set.
    * As 3p cookies deprecated, this functionality will naturally go away
    * Registrations now accept “source_debug_key” and “trigger_debug_key”, and browser will look for “ar_debug=1” SameSite: None cookie.
    * Browser will send debug report with ids immediately on attribution
    * Browser will also send debug ids alongside normal reports
    * Looking for feedback on this. Concerns with the mechanism or if there are still gaps.
* Please go through the docs and review, we need your feedback. Any comments are useful to us.
* Please add agenda items for next meeting


* Maud: new Origin Trial will be started in Chrome in the future with the changes John mentioned. Migration will be needed,
and we will have more updates on this coming as the OT approaches.
    * Also, a reminder to join the developer mailing list: https://groups.google.com/u/1/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-dev
    * Mailing list is focused on Chrome’s implementation and OT (a Chrome-only concept)
    * For questions on the proposal and the spec, belong on Github
* Brian May: What I have looked at so far looks like you are making positive improvements to things and moving in the right direction. Thanks for all the work.
