# Attribution Reporting API
Next meeting: Aug 8th, 2022 @ 8-9am PT

This doc: bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes

Meet link: https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy
Previous meetings: https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings
Meeting issue: https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80

* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join W3C and WICG if you plan on participating

# Agenda
* Chair: John Delaney
* Scribe volunteer: Maud Nalpas

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc)
* https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/app_to_web.md
* https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/525
* https://github.com/google/trusted-execution-aggregation-service/issues/6

# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 
(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)

1. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
2. Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
3.  Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
4.  Sid Sahoo (Google Chrome)
5. Amandeep Aggarwal (Amazon)
6. Alex Cone (IAB Tech Lab)
7. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)
8. Brian May (dstillery)
9. Maud Nalpas (Google Chrome)
10 Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)


# Notes

## App to web
https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/app_to_web.md

* John Delaney:
* John presents the changes published last Friday
Allows an intent based API to register sources w Chrome e.g. when an ad was clicked on a native app, you can annotate that intent to instruct Chrome to register a source. This lets you measure clicks that started in an app and converted on web. Chrome was receiving the events and doing the attribution.
Updates:
Take advantage of OS support for attribution instead. It's not the browser, but now the OS that registers sources.
I.e. in the context of Android PSandbox. Android has a proposal to support an API very similar to Attribution Reporting.
A header has been added to tell the adtech server whether the API is supported
Note: when these headers are used, every report will be serviced by the OS
App to web Attribution requires server side changes — no new attributes needed, all of this happening server side. So that should be easier to adopt.
Goal: 
Support app to web
NEW Measure web to app, and web to web as well
(... John presenting https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/app_to_web.md)

* Sid Sahoo:
Line between in-app webview and system webview?
John: for now, web = browser app on your device. The system webView is more of an OS feature. These support a wide range of WP features but are a different browser on the device. The scope for now is that of a native app.

* Brian:
What if multiple browsers are installed on the device?
John: we've thought about it; it plays very well when the OS itself is doing the attribution. So you can combine these events, and attribute across multiple browsers.

* Brian:
There's an opportunity for browsers to do cross-device if they can share metadata back and forth. With the browser doing less, there's a lost opportunity to sync data across devices, and maybe create complications for cross-device attribution use cases.

* John:
The OS may support similar features in some cases. It's a question worth filing an issue for.

* Sid: 
What's the impact of the new OS role on storage deletion?
* John: see explainer / Android PS proposal

* John:
Thoughts on the fact that with the new proposal, you can't register a source both with the browser and the OS in a single flow?

* Brian:
Can you say something about why the decision was made to stop anything in the browser when registration is made in the OS?
* John: we wanted the OS to have the full view on attribution. Whatever the browser is doing is less accurate. => 1. Utility-wise (if you want cross app you should o cros-app). 2. Privacy-wise. We're linking data between web and apps. Wrt the privacy budget and rate limits, the OS will be maintaining a budget / limits separate from the browser. If we allowed registration for both APIs, adtech could get more budget than they normally would. You could find mitigations to that. Nothing is stopping the adtech from registering with both OS and web, though, so this solution is a half mitigation. Therefore we could consider removing it. It depends if people think it's useful. Hoping to have these discussions as folks ramp up on the API.
* Brian: it comes down to where you're preserving state. 
* John: from the OS POV there's cross app data that can leak back to apps. The state stored on theOS is fairly sensitive if it's given to a given app (it would be cross-app data leak). Storing data on the OS means it usually can't be shared with apps. 

* John:
Moving on: also note the new fingerprinting vector added to the API via the proposal updates. We can discuss this more in the future.
User control section
Security considerations section

* Brian:
Did you consider partitioning web to web from OS-level interactions so you don't complicate the web model with the app model?
* John:
Yes; though that meant we had to sync information between browser and OS.
A browser responsible for web to web, it would have no insight into what's happening in apps. 
Any attempt to sync state between the two is complicated (see info leak discussion above). There may be solutions to this we can design, but in general it's a little more complicated.
There may be diversion between the Android and web API (diffs between mobile and desktop reports) — though atm the proposals are fairly aligned, you can aggregate reports coming from both mechanisms 

* John: One note on WebView: should have a way to register with OS-level APIs.

* Brian:
Turning off OS level attribution, everything gets cleared? (sources)
* John: good question; depends on what the OS wants to do
* John: On the web, in that case reports don't get sent. That sounds like reasonable behavior.

* Sid:
Are all the journeys supported? Incl. in app web view?
* John: as long as sources and triggers can register with the OS API, they'll be supported. Native apps, in-app WebView… there may be more
Would be good to have a table that summarizes the use cases

* Brian:
App to web implies a need for coordination between browser versions and OS versions
* John: 
The registration is different for web and app
For an OS registration you use a special  URL, then the OS goes and makes that request
=> No requirement for API version of the browser needs to match the OS. You may get different behaviors
To aggregate both OS and web reports you will need backwards compatibility though. This is already a challenge in the current API (version field)
Additional Debugging Asks For Attribution Reporting Api 
https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/525

* John: Please chime in on these ideas

# Discussion debugging support for summary reports
https://github.com/google/trusted-execution-aggregation-service/issues/6

* Robert:
Presented issue
Feedback/Input welcome regarding how to approach the output domain; please comment on that issue

* John:
Is this trying to bridge the gap between cleartext debugging and the output of the API?
Robert: yes, plus you can use the 

* John: 
Has allowing AWS to process the cleartext reports been considered?
* Robert:
No this is for local testing only
This capability will go away with 3PCD
