# Conversion Measurement API

Feb 22, 2021

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing


# Agenda



*   Introductions
*   Scribe volunteer
*   App to web conversions → continue discussion
    *   [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/54](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/54)
    *   4x4 grid
    *   Webview security model and support limitation
    *   Built-in click verification
    *   Click verification composed with blind-signature authentication
*   View-stuffing fraud prevention ([#101](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/101))
*   False-positive event reporting w/ fraud prevention ([#111](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/111))
*   Any other business


# Attendees — please sign yourself in!



1. Brian May (dstillery)
2. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (IAB Tech Lab / eyeo GmbH)
3. Charlie Harrison (Google)
4. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
5. Erik Taubeneck (Facebook)
6. Ben Savage (Facebook)
7. John Delaney (Google)
8. Aditya Desai (Google)
9. Basile Leparmentier (Criteo)
10. Larissa Licha (NextRoll)
11. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
12. Matt Zambelli (Neustar)
13. Danny Rojas (Google)


# Notes

App to Web Conversions



*   [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/54#issuecomment-782204187](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/54#issuecomment-782204187)
*   Ben Savage
    *   Show an ad within an app that opens safari web browser
        *   PCM supports this specific use case
    *   On facebook ,show ads in app that take you to a WKWebview instance
        *   It could be possible to support this in a Safari View Controller / (CCT equivalent)
    *   Websites rendered in Webviews / view controllers might care about measuring conversions as well
*   Charlie - Is supporting webview conversions a non starter?
*   Ben - Concerns regarding view controller support, due to timing attacks etc. Could use conversions to track when view controller is active due to delayed sending. This is even harder for WebView. Need some system level integration to implement delay + reporting sending. Can you manipulate a webview environment to enabled tracked?
    *   Two goals, don’t enable tracking and verify user gestures.
    *   CCT is similar to safari view controller. Has some trust boundaries, and even less in WebView
    *   Are there any other goals on the Chrome team?
*   Brad - Should CCT/Web cells all be filled?
*   Charlie - Yes, this should all work out of the box
*   Ben - Is there shared storage? If I click on an ad in CCT and then convert the day later in Chrome browser, does that work?
*   Brad - Yes this works out of the box
*   Charlie - We see needs for every one of these cells. We are envisioning this as each of the cells on the left, (app + webview) to send their events into Chrome/CCT. Unclear if this includes conversions, mostly focused on impressions/clicks. App->Web. WebView->Web are higher priority at the moment. Unclear story for webviews, which may be wose than WkWebView. WkWebview renders out of process (maybe), which introduces some boundary between the app. The same is not true for Android webview which doesn’t have any boundaries.
    *   Android Webviews are in-process, code can be written on the fly from the app, network requests can be intercepted, etc.
    *   Publisher origins/impression origins are important for rate limiting etc. Webviews could allow apps to fake impressions for other origins
    *   Looking at attributing events to the top level APK, rather than origins. Wouldn’t support clicking links inside of a webview for a specific ite
*   Brad - Could imagine that facebook itself is implementing measurement on behalf of sites that are being rendered in a webview. Falls on the browser container to handle these associations.
*   Ben Savage - That sounds interesting, but complicated and hard. From a privacy perspective, ideally apps wouldn’t be responsible for holding and relaying other parties data. If you are attributing events to the app, how do we verify that these clicks are legitimate?
*   Erik Taubneck - Do to a lack of trust boundary, you essentially have to treat the webview as being the app.
*   Charlie - Basic approach for verifying clicks is exposing a new browser API, which could be implemented by any browser. At a high level, you would need to package an “input” event to the call. In the new version of Android, there is a way to verify input events against the system. Will need other techniques to guarantee that you can’t reuse verified input events, etc. Only the newest Android can support this (11+). Not possible in older versions. For apps, they would need to track the input events for each click. Harder for webview, there may be some approach with having the webview implementation track these events.
*   Erik Taubneck - What types of events can be verified here? Can you verify that a certain image was shown, etc?
*   Charlie - We are only talking about verifying inputs, e.g. did a click happen. Chrome the browser doesn’t even have the capability today to verify this with click coordinates. More authentication will require relying on the blind signature verification. Need to think more about how these can be composed.
*   Ben Savage - Apps on android can ask for permissions, ushc as accessibility which give lots of controls like “when an app is installed”. When an app is installed, show an ad for the app and simulate a click. Click fraud is very common, especially click spamming/click stuffing. Not limited to fake user gestures. Terrible user experiences where the ad pops up without the user realizing they are clicking. Lots of ways to make a user “accidentally” click. Needed other protections, e.g. dropping conversions where the user clicked and browser for less than x seconds. Should try an avoid incentivizing poor user experiences.
*   Charlie - Is there similar behavior on web?
*   Ben Savage - Yes, also happens on web.
*   Charlie - Would you be supportive of having a broad threshold implemented by the API. E.g. a minimum time between impression and conversion/
*   Basile - There may be ways to game any limits. Would be nice to have the availability to change it. 
*   Erik Taubneck - Having a generalized aggregate API would be beneficial. Being able to set these limits based on your own priors would be useful.
*   Brendan Butterworth - Focusing on primitives and allowing systems to define their own thresholds is great, having a global baseline can make it a hassle.
*   Charle - Talking about enforcing a time between impression and conversion.
*   Ben Savage - If you do not have a minimum bar, there is a financial incentive to compete. They will lower the bar for themselves to take credit for more things. There is financial incentive that could introduce a race to the bottom for this limit. Even some minimum however small is necessary. 
*   Basile - Agree its good to have a minimum, but should have the ability to customize. Would make the API more usable.
*   Brendan - Having a common default baseline is a good thing. 

Erik - Some approach for using blind signature auth alongside click verification.

View stuffing (#101) -



*   Erik Taubneck - Just as with clicks, the same click stuffing can be done for views. Whatever limits there are, any adversary will push up against the limit to try and claim credits / generate reports.
*   Charlie - Original idea for signatures is that they go to a 3rd party configured by the tag. In our current design, the simplest thing is to you the reporting origin as the one to sign impressions.
*   Erik - Giving tokens can be tricky in an open web setting, when you don’t know what publisher you will be on. There may need to be some request when an ad is shown
*   Charlie - Makes sense to request tokens after viewability requirements are met
*   Erik - May want to verify that the number of ads you paid for matched up to the number of tokens you registered
*   Charlie - Only if your definition of bidding and viewability match up
*   Erik - You need to trust the source, as they are requesting the token
*   Charlie - In some cases you are on the page and have javascript running. Can use these when requesting a blind signature to have more context.
*   Erik - Is it possible to avoid the real time request by having the publisher have a set of tokens, and give one for each request.
*   Charlie - It makes sense for the reporting origin to request/manage these tokens.
*   Mehul Parsana - Ad tech provider would know if the user is real, even when the ad is authentic on a publisher. Could try to overlay with a Trust token. Does signature request carry additional context to get signed?
*   Charlie - For every event you are signing, there are a set of signals you are collecting that come alongside the event. It wont be perfect. Can ask the server if this set of signals look trusted. This can include 1P cookie information and site activity on the 1P.
*   Mehul - Talking about a completely compromised client. Most fraud systems look at cross site behavior rather than 1P data. How many domains did you visit in the last 24 hours, etc. Currently possible via 3P cookies.
*   Ben Savage - Have seen click farms. In our proposal you sign the click and conversion with the same nonce. Just clicking wont get you any conversions. Harder to simulate conversions that have value. Need to have a click and conversion on the same device. Prevents stealing conversion events from other browsers. If there is a conversion payload, not signing that there was a conversion, but signing what the conversion was with a partially blind signature. If you can guarantee there are all signed on the same device it is more costly to forge these.
*   Mehul - Conversion rate is low, only need to simulate a few conversions to get many clicks through. Need a way to determine that the user and click looks organic. 
*   Erik - Just trying to validate that a source said a click happened, and a destination says that a conversion happened. Thats the scope of the authentication here. Validating that the user is real is an important problem, but beyond the scope of this auth approach.
*   Charlie - A bit skeptical of the browser being able to verify this. Needs to be an interaction with a party who knows what is good behavior vs bad behavior. Trust tokens is one composable approach which allows conveying user level trust.
*   Ben Savage - Lookin at the distribution of revenue per user, a fraudster needs to have a weird distribution to make this work. Can potentially use aggregate API to look at whether an advertisers revenue per user is normal. At least can raise the bar for auth. Lots of conversion events which do not cost the fraudster anything.