# Attribution Reporting API

March 22, 2021

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing


# Agenda



*   Introductions
*   Scribe volunteer: Michael Kleber
*   [App-to-web explainer](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/blob/main/app_to_web.md) overview ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DkTJddnOAGn2OJa0wB-MiN8XhGcdwpdbEFZF9gtQTvw/edit?usp=sharing))
*   Aggregate Conversion API
    *   Traffic discussion
*   Dynamic event-level parameters
*   What are your thoughts about AB testing and lift measurement?
*   Any other business


# Attendees — please sign yourself in!



1. Charlie Harrison (Google)
2. Brian May (dstillery)
3. Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)
4. Mikko Juola (NextRoll)
5. Marshall Vale (Google Chrome)
6. Lorenzo Hernandez (NextRoll)
7. Larissa Licha (NextRoll)
8. Erik Taubeneck (Facebook)
9. Paul Marcilhacy (Criteo)
10. Arnaud Blanchard (Criteo)
11. John Delaney (Google)
12. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
13. Ben Savage (Facebook)
14.  (RTB House)
15. Daniel Rojas (Google)
16. Matt Zambelli (Neustar)
17. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (eyeo GmbH / IAB Tech Lab)
18. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)


# Notes

Charlie Harrison: Please remember to sign in on the attendees list above!

Charlie: Agenda:



*   Last Friday published an explainer for app-to-web attribution, CH has some slides to go over to explain that work
*   Interested in people's expectations for traffic requirements for a system-wide service
*   Dynamic API — parameterization
*   A/B testing and Lift measurement

Other topics?  May already be too jam-packed to accommodate more

Ben Savage: I'm not too familar with Android — can you give a review of Pending Intents and Content Provider as concepts?

Charlie: Yes, will go over as much as I can, though I'm also not deeply familiar, just passing on what I've learned in the last month.

Charlie presenting [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DkTJddnOAGn2OJa0wB-MiN8XhGcdwpdbEFZF9gtQTvw/edit#slide=id.p](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DkTJddnOAGn2OJa0wB-MiN8XhGcdwpdbEFZF9gtQTvw/edit#slide=id.p)

Android App to Web API — starting with slides



*   API that any browser can implement, uses existing primitives.  More capabilities are possible, but this is a first version in which the browser is playing a role that any app could play.
*   Two key events:
    *   registering click impressions
    *   registering view impressions
*   Click attribution: When a user clicks on an ad in an app, it triggers the "ACTION_VIWE intent", which sends information to the browser that specifies where they want the browser to navigate to.  Idea is that we want this existing message to become bundled with some metadata — all the same metadata that we hold on to for an in-browser click
*   Key question of trust model: Browser needs to know _who sent the intent_.  This is a deliberate omission from the Android platform; kind of parallel to a decision about the Referrer header.  That's a problem for our use case; browser needs to be able to verify the sender.
*   Solution that exists already: PendingIntent.  The creator of a PendingIntent is known by the system.  When you fire the intent, it acts like a normal intent, but the original parameters that were bundled in are immutable.
    *   Brian May: Q: Who fires the intent?
*   Charlie: There is an outer intent and an inner intent.  App creates the PendingIntent = inner, and wraps another intent around it.  Browser unpacks the structure and fires the PendingIntent itself, and it can verify that everything afterwards results from its self-firing mechanism.  That lets the browser know what app the PendingIntent came from.
*   One thing different from the web API is the "input" parameter, parallel to the "verified clicks" mechanism of the Safari API.  The app itself will keep track of which input event led to firing the VIEW intent.  The app bundles the input event into the PendingIntent itself.  In the newest version of Android, there is a new API that allows for InputEvent verification, VerifiedInputEvents — the app passes the event to the browser, and the browser asks the system whether the event really happened.  This offers system-level click verification, similar to what we have on web (where the browser knows that something really happened as a result of a user activation).
*   This is only in the latest version of Android, so we won't have this protection on older versions.  But we can make the API backwards-compatible, pre-Android11, it just won't have the input verification feature.
    *   Ben Savage:Q: Looks like we have more on Android 6 Marshmallow than on Android 11.  We're stuck with pre-11 for a long time.  If I was a fraudster, I would just masquerade as a pre-11 app.  Any way to at least indicate which reports are really from post-11 vs pre-11 sources?
*   For event-level reporting, we can certainly report some of these properties, to keep them from being falsified.  Reporting pre-11 is probably not that useful alone, since you'll probably get a lot of valid traffic from these devices.  Could also try to use blind signature techniques with some app smarts, but the only way to get system verification is on post-11.  (Everything else seems to have no historical limit problems.)
    *   Ben: Q: What exactly is it verifying?
    *   Charlie: Verifies that an event really happened — e.g. click really occurred at this timestamp.  So the browser has the option of what to do with that information.  Existing browser API uses "transient user activation", which is a spec-level concept — thing was created within 5 seconds after a user gesture.  Probably makes sense for us to align those concepts between app & web, so Chrome would verify with the system that there was a small enough timespan between the event and when Chrome receives the message, but that's all doable on the browser side.  Underlying protection is similar to web: browser isn't verifying that you clicked on anything in particular, just whether there was a user click on that app when it was in the foreground.
    *   Q: Przemyslaw Iwanczak: Is this Chrome-specific, or can other Android browsers support this?
    *   Charlie: As long as the browser that receives the outer intent is also marked as the target of the inner intent, this can be implemented by any browser.  There are scale questions when we get to view-through conversions; if the user has 20 browsers installed, we may have a problem.
    *   Q: Brain May: Worried about Android OS version and updating.  Can apps tell what version of the browser they're dealing with?
    *   Charlie: Haven't specified how an app can ping to find out whether the browser supports this flow, but should be something we specify.  Could work very naturally with existing APIs.  We can include a back-channel, not illustrated on the slides now, to indicate success.
    *   Brad Lassey: Some devices can't be upgraded off of old versions of Android, support for those devices is going away.  Modern devices more upgradable, so this is a legacy problem that will eventually go away.
*   Charlie: View-through attribution: Wanted some of the same properties where the browser can verify the sender.  Need a  storage area where apps can write to and browsers can read from.  App will send an event to the browser's ContentProvider with all the parameters of the impression, stored for when the full browser is around to read them all.  (Doesn't require the browser actually starting up in the background at the time of each view event, which might be a heavyweight operation.)  Temp storage holds on to events until they are ready to process, but otherwise pretty similar to clicks where the browser is forced to start up to handle the click.
    *   Q: Brian: What happens if that storage area gets full?
    *   Charlie: There are storage limits everywhere — this happens in the browser also.  So we do expect some storage limit, probably per-app.  Hopefully it will be high enough that it doesn't hurt utility; it's a data storage limit, not a privacy limit.  The content provider could also schedule Chrome to wake up and process events, to avoid this area ending up too full.  Mimic what's in the full browser, just a little simpler.
    *   Brian: Any feedback to the app on current state of storage?
    *   Charlie: On insert, could give back success/failure signal, though hasn't gone through full processing so maybe only a simplified version
    *   Ben: What is view-through attribution equivalent to on the browser side?  I thought the web API was for clicks only, not views.
    *   Charlie: In the original aggregate conversion explainer we do talk about modifying the existing impression/conversion API to deal with view-through conversions and how to specify views.  We're also investigating generic aggregate reporting unrelated to conversions.  Check out[ AGGREGATE.md](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/blob/main/AGGREGATE.md)
    *   Ben: For Lift Measurement, how would we do it with this API?  Register a fake event for an impression that never happened?
    *   Charlie: Right, register counter-factual views.  This is a poor requirement for the ads ecosystem; fine to support it and aligns with our existing implementation of not validating anything about views.  So far we don't have any plans to validate views and haven't seen any proposals for doing so
    *   Ben: You will verify that the sending app really is who it claims to be?
    *   Charlie: Right, similar to having a verified way to know what the top-level page is.
    *   Mehul Parsana: What metadata gets passed along, how is it specified?
    *   Charlie: Trying to match the API surface 1:1, so whatever you have in the event-level browser API is what we should include in impression metadata on the app side.  We're treating the app as if it were a web page, so it gets the same capabilities, but not stronger than what web pages get.
    *   Mehul: when we start putting the details, would be interesting to be clear about what the app itself is able to log — what it gives to browser, and what it can send to a server linked, e.g. how about an in-app user ID.
    *   Charlie: This browser does indeed allow you to link app activity with web activity, just like the conversion API in browser lets you link one-site activity to another-site activity.  We still need to prevent identity joining, just will allow you to link an event on the app side (including metadata like a user id) with a little signal of something from the web site, like in web conversions.
    *   Mehul: Aggregate is different though?
    *   Charlie: Right, what I was saying was about event-level.  We're also considering how to deal with the context and processing it in worklets, and if we land that, it will also work in the app case.  But in any case the system is designed so that you can't link that to web IDs.
    *   Mehul: What if the app keeps running in the background, keeps registering impressions even though it's not really showing ads?  What is the threat model of malicious app SDKs?
    *   Charlie: This is indeed part of the threat for all of the view-based APIs — how do you avoid spamming the system with tons of events?  Basic browser answers involve rate limiting: on number of pending impressions, for example, based on privacy justifications, or on total storage size, to protect against overflowing storage.
*   Paul Mrcy: Q: Lift measurement?  A/B testing?  (from the agenda)  Super glad that you consider lift measurement as a valid use case.  I think in the GitHub proposals I never really saw view-through for web-to-web.  Is lift measurement something you want to support more generally, document in GitHub, etc?
    *   Charlie: For view-throughs, we definitely want at least support in the aggregate case, as mentioned in [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/blob/main/AGGREGATE.md](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/blob/main/AGGREGATE.md) that we talked about before.  In terms of _event-level_ view-through, there are open issues in GitHub discussing it, which talks through some of the different possible privacy mitigations we'd need.  It's not off the table, but will likely require stricter privacy protections than the click-through version of the API does.  We're interested, it's just more challenging because there is an inherent rate limit due to active rate of user engagement.
    *   Paul: A/B testing part: There are two different things, the reporting time (discussed here) and the event occurrence stuff (FLoC, FLEDGE, etc).   How to handle that?
    *   Charlie: We definitely do want this to compose with the targeting APIs.  Need to be careful because e.g. the full event-level API might be in conflict with the Fenced Frame protections against joining stuff inside and outside the frame.  Should be able to handle it using aggregate APIs at least, though.
*   Erik Taubeneck: Where you say "Browser" in the slides, is that the _default_ browser?
    *   Charlie: I think we used that for the explainer, but at least for views could send this to all the browsers installed.  Might run into scaling issues, if there are lots of browsers installed; could require enhancements where there is some mediated central system that different browsers could read from, but there are tricky design decisions there — cross that bridge when it comes.  This should be enough for initial experimentation.
    *   Erik: My use case: FB has an in-app browser.  Last thing we want to do is be responsible inside our in-app browser for anything about reporting conversions from sites people visit inside the in-app browser.  So we care about the issue of browser-to-browser passing on of information, where the multiple browsers happen to be different.
    *   Charlie: I address this at the end, in how we make it work automatically for WebView.  Would be great to naturally support it all.  We tried to see if we could get WebViews to automatically use the API in previous slides to forward all events from the web APIs to the default browser.  We ran into a little bit of trouble because we can't treat webview-inside-app any more specially than we can treat the embedding app itself (there is no security boundary between them) — so we can't trust a WebView for questions like who is the page the user is inside of.  Maybe blind-signature-style stuff could offer some protection, but kind of like treating it as a compromised device.  We could do it automatically but treat all events as if they are coming from the _embedder app_, not the page the user is looking at inside the WebView, which probably isn't really what you want.  To solve this better, we would need a different architecture for the in-app browsers (e.g. Chrome Custom Tabs), or else explore some future-looking WebView architecture with out-of-process rendering.  This is an area where more ideas are wanted; please speak up or file issues.
    *   Eric: For clicks or views, aren't we doing impression-time blind signatures?  Even if it's in WebView, you would assume that the malicious app can't generate a token that would validate as the publisher
    *   Charlie: May in principle we can get around this, let the app specify anything in any of the parameters, just pass along the blind signature or any other data.  It's not great — makes the blind-signature verification flows much more load-bearing.  In the case where the device isn't completely compromised, you should be able to trust the system, people shouldn't be able to send fake events, and this would break that.  We want to avoid performance concerns, don't want every event to be expensive.
    *   Erik: I thought the flow already had a binding for every conversion
    *   Charlie: I was thinking of it as something that's optional — it's quite technical and complex, can do it if you want the extra security, but don't need it every time.
    *   Erik: Could make it more lightweight, cut down on round-trips.  Or the service in the OS could do the validation
    *   Charlie: Let's talk about this in a GitHub issue.  I'm cautious.
    *   Brian: I'm realizing how different a phone is rather than a computer (the in-app browser issue).  Sounds to me like we may need some centralized control.
    *   Charlie: I think the platonic ideal API here would involve something central, but that involves a bunch of extra design decisions as well, would need authentication systems like Erik was talking about.  Interested in exploring.  Unification across all browsers is something we are interested in.
    *   Brad: This only applies to browsers that are accepting incoming events from the outside — so that's more like classic browsers than about in-app browisers
    *   Charlie: There are two things:
        *   browsers that want to handle conversions ,and get reports into it from external clicks and views
        *   in-app browsers that want to hand both views and clicks off to real browsers.
            *   Eric: Apps don't want to cannibalize the views, conversions, etc that should properly be attributed to sites that people were visiting inside our in-app browser.

Charlie: See you in two weeks!
