# Conversion Measurement API

Feb 8, 2021

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing


# Agenda



*   Introductions
*   Scribe volunteer → Maudn
*   Naming change PR
    *   [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/103](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/103)
*   (Paul Marcilhacy) [B.I.N.O.C.U.L.A.R.S](https://github.com/criteo/privacy/tree/main/lab/BINOCULARS)
*   App to web conversions ([issue 54](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/54)) ([Safari’s proposal](https://webkit.org/blog/11529/introducing-private-click-measurement-pcm/))
    *   Potential Android (Webview?) API
    *   Click through, View through
*   Generic vs. purpose-built API
    *   Privacy scope
    *   Javascript requirement
*   Any other business


# Attendees — please sign yourself in!



1. Charlie Harrison (Google)
2. Andrew Knox (Facebook)
3. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (IAB Tech Lab / eyeo GmbH)
4. Mikko Juola (NextRoll)
5. Valentino Volonghi (NextRoll)
6. Larissa Licha (NextRoll)
7. Ben Savage (Facebook)
8. John Delaney (Google)
9. Daniel Rojas (Google)
10. Jonasz Pamuła (RTB House)
11. Maud Nalpas (Google)
12. Ryan Avecilla (Neustar)
13. Paul Marcilhacy (Criteo)
14. Matt Zambelli (Neustar)
15. Julie Karasik (NAI)a
16. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)


# Notes

Scribe: Maud Nalpas


# Naming change PR

Take a look if interested

[https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/103](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/103)


# (Paul Marcilhacy) B.I.N.O.C.U.L.A.R.S

[https://github.com/criteo/privacy/tree/main/lab/BINOCULARS](https://github.com/criteo/privacy/tree/main/lab/BINOCULARS) 

_Paul Marcilhacy speaking_

It's a spinoff of SPARROW; it could however fit in many other proposals.

Observed that A/B testing / anything around lift measurement wasn't much covered yet, which is a mistake because it's so crucial to the industry ⇒ Need a robust solution to cover that use case; that's what B.I.N.O.C.U.L.A.R.S is about.

Pt 1. of this proposal is very similar to SPARROW.

Pt.2 is the new part, it's the one about lift measurement. Took a lot from Ben Savage's proposal. 



*   Showing the ad: Unique ID given to the user by the browser; the browser is also responsible at the last second to show the ad ("exposed population") or not. 
*   Measuring: there's also a reporting piece. The browser keeps track of all the opportunities (displays and "ghost displays"); then a 3P aggregates all the reports and sends these to advertisers for both groups (exposed population and control population).

    And that's how lift measurement use cases are covered.


Difference between BINOCULARS with FB's proposal: extra flexibility:



*   Contextual signals can be used to direct the user towards the exposed or the control group.
*   Multiple layers of decision / forks on the way.

Note: BINOCULARS is WIP! Feedback most welcome.

_Ben Savage:_



*   Aggregate API sufficient for lift (previous issue) for 1P use-case
*   What exactly does Pt3 mean? "One row for display"? Which part is K-anonymous?

_Paul:_



*   Basile may better address this
*   "1 row for display" = 1 row per ad impression. It's customizable: if an adv needs to access reports, would provide needed dimensions in an ordered list. But as soon as K-anonymity can't be guaranteed for this specific request / set of dimensions, the results would be hidden.

_Ben:_

What is this for, ML?

_Paul:_

Yes, primarily. But because it's so flexible, in theory each actor could do what they want with the report.

_Ben:_

Can you query the same dataset multiple times with a different set of dimensions?

_Paul:_

No.

So the reduction of diff Privacy is the only diff between this and the CM API?

_Charlie:_

The bit on ranked granular reports is really similar to the CM API. In the CM API, no K-An, going for low-entropy IDs and noise. But really had to add these privac protections, otherwise would be too easy to workaround.

Opportunity ID could be used to tie back user identity on the site, right?

_Paul:_

The UID could be, so it's hidden from the 

But the opportunity ID is only accessible to the adv, not to the publisher.

_Charlie:_

But isn't an opportunity ID always available to both advertisers and publishers?

Is this a generic CM API **or** is it designed mostly for fenced frames, isolated environments?

_Paul:_

The ladder, definitely targeted as a TURTLEDOVE-ish world.

_Charlie:_

Great, would be useful to frame it in the document. 

Because CM API is more generic. \
BINOCULAR feels very similar to AGGREGATE API.

A/B is still very important to us (though I agree it hasn't been brought up recently); it was discussed in the fenced frames proposal.

Internally we're debating whether we want to have purpose-built APIs or generic APIs. E.g.: do we want an A/B test API or something that could support all use cases?

_Arnaud:_

Incrementality with a broader sponsorship from all of us would be beneficial for the industry.

To me this is even more important than attribution.

We should **not** refer to Incrementality as "one more use case".

The fact that we take huge steps to preserve attribution isn't helpful.

To me preserving incrementality is more important than attribution.

_Ben Savage:_

I agree; incrementality is the gold standard.

The recent update on Apple's [PCM](https://webkit.org/blog/11529/introducing-private-click-measurement-pcm/) got close to something that could enable lift measurement **with** an event-level API. 

Maybe if we constrain entropy enough (1-bit campaign ID) on an event-level API

There are a few issues:



*   The report goes to one particular publisher
*   Throttling/rate limiting

_Charlie:_

How is an event-level one?

_Ben Savage:_

Getting the Aggregate working is a lot of work (especially Apple isn't super comfortable with it).

If we could take something Apple has already published and minorly tweak it.

_Charlie:_

I worry we'd be microtargeting certain use cases. Though I agree incrementality is important.

If we had an API like what you suggested, do we feel it's enough to do error estimation on the output? I feel you'd want extra user bucketing.

_Andrew:_

The essential thing is to know there was an effect.

_Charlie:_

So reporting a binary could be OK to rule out the null hypothesis?

_Andrew:_

If all your conversions have similar values, then that makes sense.

You need 2 things:



*   Value count
*   Variance

Sum of values and sum of square of values is enough (though you could do a lot better).

There's a lot of subtlety to it / things that can add bias to lift measurement.

_Charlie:_

Good to know that the 1-bit proposal may be sufficient.


# App to web conversions 

[https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/54](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/54) 

_Charlie_

No conversions outside of Safari, no WebView

Click actually made from the system

Other than that, similar to the web API (but the reporting endpoint need to be registered in a config)

Great, we're exploring this in Chrome. We've been looking at this from Android because on iOS we can't control the WebView.

_Ben_

Apple has anchored the space strongly.

Proposal is great because:



*   Support for the use case
*   Same API
*   Click fraud proof checked at the OS level (Apple is standing behind these clicks), would like Chrome to provide the same guarantees

BUT:



*   In order to stand by it, it only works if you're opening the default browser.
*   That's the only proposal — if Chrome had different ideas that would help

(about WebView)

People don't always convert in the WebView; that's supported.

Yet data shows that most of the time people do convert in the WebView.

But for accurate reporting it would be good to measure both.

_Charlie_

QQ to group:

App to Web conv where the impression is in an embedded webview vs native (so we can't rely on the embedding app to have mobile specific APIs).

How useful would it be to have the webview and browser share storage?

_Ben_

FB doesn't show apps in embedded webviews but people do spend time on sites they're visiting from FB. Example: click a link on FB to <span style="text-decoration:underline;">news.example</span>; then you're in a news.example WebView

So ideally it should be shared storage.

It's actually a 3x3 grid:

App to WebView

WebView to web

WebView to WebView 

… etc

It would be useful to map that.

_Valentino_

Depending on the campaign, you could have 30% of impressions coming from embedded webviews, and you want to measure that.

Some conversions can happen quickly (e.g. signup).

The typical situation is the one above (WebView in FB browser)

_Ben:_

When we supported web, we saw a lot impressions from in-app web viewers

_Charlie:_

Is "Impression on web, conversion on app" an important use case?

&lt;No reaction from audience => maybe that's low prio>

&lt;Comment after the meeting from Paul Mrcy: “I was late to answer but this is a use case we consider somewhat important for app retargeting (for example).”>

_Ben:_

Your idea for Android would be to use intents

Plans to validate they're legitimate?

Viewability measurement is really hard. But what's the plan, will Chrome stand behind these views?

_Charlie:_

We'll mimic the web surace as much as possible

No plans to impose restrictions or have the browser validate that.

I didn't know that fraud validation for CTC was a use case

We've thought of adding validation at the system level, but not trivial

_Ben:_

Click stuffing is a huge fraud vector (more than conversion fraud).

Think of a staged approach because that use case is really key.

_Charlie:_

How is click stuffing not addressed?

If you have a click with a context ID, can't use use the way.

_Ben:_

It shouldn't be impossible, it should only be really hard.

(Some bits missed)
