# Attribution Reporting API

Nov 29, 2021

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.


# Agenda

Add agenda topics here!



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Introductions
* Scribe volunteer: Martin Pal
* Developer-facing updates
    * New blogposts:
        * [https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-event-introduction/](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-event-introduction/)
        * [https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-event-guide/](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-event-guide/)
* Issue 194: Declarative API + event-level reports
    * [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/194](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/194)
* [Issue 224](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/224): AEAD shared info


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 



1. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
2. Erik Anderson (Microsoft Edge)
3. Brian May (dstillery)
4. Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
5. 
6. Martin Pal (Google Chrome)
7. Alex Turner (Google Chrome)
8. Betul Durak (Microsoft)
9. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
10. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
11. Nan Lin (Google Chrome)
12. Erik Taubeneck (Facebook)
13. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
14. Swati Lal (Yahoo)
15. Mariana Raykova (Google)
16. Manny Isu (Google)
17. Maud Nalpas (Google Chrome)
18. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
19. Phillipp Schoppmann (Google)


# Notes



Charlie: 3 topic on agenda:

Couple of announcements about devel documentation

How to use declarative api with event level reports

Have 2 blog posts: info and a developer-facing guide. Changelog from previous OT. 

Maud on blog posts: 2nd post more interesting. API guide provides examples, links to a demo. Section with changelog.

[https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-event-introduction/](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-event-introduction/)

[https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-event-guide/](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-event-guide/)

Charlie: have a look at demo to see features added.

Brian: thanks for the changelog

Charlie: Next item. Declarative API. Has been talked about in previous weeks.

[https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/194](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/194)

How to make this work with event-level reports.

Charlie: I will present proposal, then discuss. 

Declarative API should generate a report analogous to current OT. Have event_id and metadata.

What to add:

Source declaration: add source event id (64 bit impression id)

Everything else same as aggregate API

Aggregate cares about buckets. Event level API only about label

Source data used for filtering. Compatible with event-level reports.

Triggering: Some trigger events will be attributed to previous impressions. Aggregate api may do attribution differently. 

Proposal: make attribution logic same for event-level and aggregate api.

Feedback appreciated if 

Should we share the triggering labels? Perhaps have separate section for event stuff vs aggregate part of the report.

Change any field names?

How to differentiate between CTC and VTC? We say the former 3 bits, the latter 1 bit

Strawman solution: Share attribution filter -- attributed to same impression for both agg and event api. Simplest attribution logic in browser. Also easiest for devs to understand

Separate aggregate data from event data; renamed fields for agg

Different data limits for navigation and event source data

Source_data: solves some questions Facebook and Y! Japan were looking at

Allows filtering and ignoring conversions 

Standardizing syntax in the report

Everything is specified in a single configuration

John: sharing attribution filters: having different attribution filters

Multiple redirects: well-known/trigger-conversion return event-level json, another redirect that returns aggregate json

Charlie: this would split the json into two parts

John: this is an option. Say event-level data and aggregate data are two top-level fields

Charlie: Implementation complexity vs dev experience. If attribution logic different, chrome needs to keep track of things twice. Nice to have a constraint that makes the two report types consistent.

I'd prefer to have a single json that specifies trigger behavior explicitly for both rather than implicitly through redirects

Brian: Looking at json. How people who provide this to browser see what happens on the browser. 

Charlie: the state you need to care about is limited. You don't need to know what came prior. The API adds a bit.

Event-level api you don't need to know much -- unique event id, + 3 conv-side bits. No data that is a function of both until they get joined.

Idea with attribution filters: desire to have data that is function of both impression and conversion side data. Need to have a "schema" for what data is specified for an impression. These are all the fields set on impression side, queried on conversion side. 

Worklet: you can see all state in the worklet. Not pursuing in short term due to implementation complexity -- security, privacy, performance

To simplify: dev always have option to keep impression-side and conversion-side data independent

Workelt design in explainer. May move to "future work", with declarative api the option to go with

Eric: idea of filtering for event level api a positive thing. Have a concern about combining the two. COnsistency become standard -- should these be standardized independently? If standards processes independent, then should perhaps keep implementations separate?

Charlie: sounds reasonable. If we wanted to separate, could go with separate response headers as John suggested. The only concern is -- chrome implementation is tightly coupled, would need to decouple. 

Eric: if only develop for Chrome, keep coupled. If other browsers as well, some will only want to use aggregate api. 

Charlie: We think of this as one API, with two different report types. If a browser doesn't support event-level, it can just support aggregate (and have config only apply to aggregate)

Maybe bring this up at PATCG.

If two separate work streams, then two response headers. If one API, then let's keep single config

Eric: anyone here representing other platforms? No strong feelings, just wanted to raise as concern

Brian: I like your approach of an API that decays gracefully -- some browsers may not support part of it, but the part that is supported should be uniform across browsers

Charlie: next issue. 

Alex: can you present

Data needs to be sent to reporting origin and aggregation servers -- scheduled time, privacy budget keys

Payload can't be decrypted; 

What if plaintext and encrypted data out of sync. Validation on agg servers more robust as we don't need custom validation code, only 

Standard encoding of shared information. Vs custom validation. 

Would reduce # errors from the aggregation server

Charlie: Reporting origin needs to care about the encoding

Charlie: are we duplicating the information?

Alex: Canonical encoding reconstructed independently. 

Can reporting origin just pass bytes or is manipulation necessary

Can we use hash of shared info?

If we use hash, need to have canonical encoding

What's in the hash:

Timestamp

Aggregation service needs to have access to privacy budget key

Charlie: we can't condense the privacy budget key into a single hash. Need at least some fields in plain text. 

Erik T: PBK needs to be consistent across clients. 

Charlie: do we want custom standard encoding? Binary encoding? Base64 encoding to put this in json. May need UTF8 serialization. 

Alex: will we be duplicating this data in plain text? 

Simple encoding proposal: need to think this through

Alex: if we have deterministic, unlikely to change encoding. 

Charlie: generate PBK and ensure ad tech can't change it. Or, duplicate it in encrypted form, have validation logic 

Eric: If you did CBOR

Charlie: decryption would fail if 

This is about the format of the report. Report is generated by the browser. This is dev experience question -- can devs handle CBOR fields 

If we do json, 2 options: 

Have something that specific byte-for-byte encoding of the PBK. This is not trivial as json does not support binary encoding. 



1. Scrap json, use CBOR
2. Use json, stuff binary encoding into json (custom or base64)

Eric T: is it non-trivial to write a tool to translate from CBOR to json

Charlie: my preference to do everything in CBOR as this is cleanest api. In terms of priority of constituencies, making something easy to use for devs is priority.

Option: shared info separate? Send two separate reports?

Alex: Highlight risk. Part of motivation is to prevent disparities between the two representations. 

Could imagine a shared info and a string encoding of another json 

Simplify from needing to decode to needing to parse json from string

Can have separate custom encoding

Charlie: look through json serialization libs, see if there's consistency. 

Alex: reporting origin doesn't need that

Brian: when encodings shared between people, if there's an error, we see an error

Charlie: that's why we wanted no parsing, just have ad tech pass raw bytes

Erik: AAD(?) is the right tool for this. Reason to use CBOR?

Maud: fwiw, CBOR is also used in FIDO e.g.[ https://fidoalliance.org/specs/fido-v2.0-id-20180227/fido-client-to-authenticator-protocol-v2.0-id-20180227.html](https://fidoalliance.org/specs/fido-v2.0-id-20180227/fido-client-to-authenticator-protocol-v2.0-id-20180227.html)

Brian: any schedule changes due to holidays?

Charlie: let's discuss on the meeting issue. 
