# Attribution Reporting API

Oct 4, 2021

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.

If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.


# Agenda

Add agenda topics here!



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Introductions
* Scribe volunteer: Angelina Eng
* Benjamin Savage: [https://github.com/privacycg/private-click-measurement/issues/88#issuecomment-920778905](https://github.com/privacycg/private-click-measurement/issues/88#issuecomment-920778905) 
* Consider adding a nonce to attribution reports
    * [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/228](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/228)
* Consider using a non-JS based mechanism for generating aggregate histogram contributions
    * [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/194](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/194)
* Origin Trial test timeframe, and how to contribute.


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 



1.  Angelina Eng (IAB & IAB Tech Lab)
2.  Brian May (dstillery)
3.   (Google Chrome)
4.  Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
5.  Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (eyeo GmbH)
6.  Erik Taubeneck (Facebook)
7.  Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
8.  Philip Lee (Google Chrome)
9.  Swati Lal (Yahoo)
10.  Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
11.  Alex Turner (Google Chrome)
12.  Phillipp Shoppmann (Google)
13.  Bill Landers (Xandr)
14. Mariana Raykova (Google)
15.  Brad Lassey (Google Chrome)
16.  Lorenzo Hernandez (NextRoll)
17. Betul Durak (Microsoft)
18. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
19. Hélène Maestripieri (Google Chrome) 
20. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
21. (NextRoll)
22. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
23. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
24. Przemyslaw Iwanczak (RTB House)
25. Marshall Vale (Google Chrome)


# Notes

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Blinded Token in PCM</span>



* But how to put blinded token on trigger side to help prevent fake trigger events.  [https://github.com/privacycg/private-click-measurement/issues/88#issuecomment-920778905](https://github.com/privacycg/private-click-measurement/issues/88#issuecomment-920778905) 
    * Trigger could be attributed to multiple clicks, and need different tokens for each event to prevent linking.
    * In Chrome, not an issue because each source is identified individually.  
    * In the aggregate API, where one source event is tied to 2 trigger events would have 2 different blind tokens.
    * John Wilander - there is potential for one to many relationships. There could be 1 to 1. But if you come from different source sites, and end up at the same destination site, is there a way to have a wild card trigger event.This could possibly still be affected in Chrome.
        * Requesting the same number of tokens, could potentially expose something to the source site. Needs to be static number of tokens.
        * Attribution reporting API, there’s a 3rd party getting the reports?
        * Need to unlink two different conversions to a click.
    * There’s 2 separate issues.
        * 1 conversion to multiple sources. Impossible in PCM
        * Multiple separate events coming from separate publishers (many to 1).
* Angelina- GAM system, there is a notion of assisted and unassisted reporting.
    * Those reports are helpful to allow us to keep publishers on the buy because even though they weren’t the last click, they contributed to the conversion
    * “Unassisted conversions” helps publishers. If you just focus on the last click, advertisers will only spend money on most efficient channel, it can take a while to convert
    * Search is usually the one that gets the conversion
    * Last click harms publishers
* Not including a merchant token benefits the last click.
* Angelina - does it have to be last click? Can advertiser weight it?
    * We don’t host publisher pixels on advertiser sites
    * Most pixels placed on advertisers is for programmatic, social and search.
    * Advertisers typically don’t disclose conversion data directly to a publisher.
* How can we trust the system to pick the right publisher for attribution? 
* Attribution model vs. authenticate reports - we need to untangle the two and treat differently.
    * Give control to source and destination sites.
    * Destination site could iterate thru possible source sites and fire tokens. - in efficient.
    * Rather static number, when calling API how many sites they want to attribute. Eg. Last 3 or 5.
    * Two potential issues - which ones?  Would they allow one?
* 1st party getting PCM.
    * Wild card - based of (agreed upon) model.
    * Attribution reporting - last touch only in specific channels.
* Hesitant to allow merchant to have flexibility to what the conversion model is.  Need to be careful of attribution model.
* Need a flexible way where we have 2 variances that are constant.
    * Will only pick 1
    * Which one we pick is independent of any conversion side data. Selects the highest priority, and allows different attribution models (linear, time based, first touch), but we need to be more careful in the event level.
* With the priority - only available if there’s a company in the middle.
* PCM: Publisher and Merchant (advertiser) gets the data, they can decide who to “loop in” from a third party perspective.
* Attribution reporting maintains more or less the status quo to browser who to send reports to. Maintains serving ad on publisher side and allow both side, to have well-known location to whom reports need to be send to.
* Think about w/third party integrations- how can we make it easier for them? Could they help with token exchange? They could create the key on behalf of the merchant. Ad Tech helps to alleviate management.
* For every trigger domain have a well known set of ad tech companies, that helps prevent individualized domains? 

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Adding nonce in JS</span>



* Consider using a non-JS based mechanism for generating aggregate histogram contributions
    * [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/194](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/194)
* Data loss due to delayed reporting.  User might not have stable network connection.  So might see increased loss reports.
* Might get to server, but client doesn’t receive response headers...could cause gaps.
* Unresolved - what do we name this thing?  Not Nonce.
* JW. A bad actor can game it by making systems send multiple reports, and ultimately be a tracking mechanism.
* JD. Perhaps limited retries. We could control it possibly.
* IP protection / Private Relay like - these concerns go away. If retries happen with same network configuration this also goes away. 
* JW. hide IP addresses in subsequent visits.  IP address protection is crucial piece to this.
* Perhaps used for conversion and retry?
* JW - timestamp when trying to retrieve reports - help recipient.  As long as it can’t duplicate results from same device.  Perhaps timestamp and unique nonce.
* BM - network stability.  Multiple pixels fire from that session with bits of info.  With retry, can we have a standard # eg. 2 or 3 times.  How often does errors happen? How much potential data could be leaked?
    * Propose as another topic.
    * JW  - no waying if ad click or regular click, open issue to support organic measurement.  