# Attribution Reporting API

Nov 1, 2021

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.


# Agenda

Add agenda topics here!



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Introductions
* Scribe volunteer: Erik Taubeneck
* (Charlie Harrison) Discuss moving work to [PATCG](https://www.w3.org/community/patcg/)
* Related discussions next week:
    * Nov 8: MPC discussion [https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/39](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/39)
    * Nov 10: BOF @ IETF 112 discussing standardizing some MPC work ([link](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/112/agenda/#:~:text=Privacy%20Respecting%20Incorporation%20of%20Values))
* (Andrew Paseltiner) Response-header based registration (#[261](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/261))
* (Maud Nalpas) Developer-facing updates:
    * [Intent to Extend OT](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/DdjaFmsb4fA/m/RTK45f9gBQAJ)
    * [New post: data clearing](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-data-clearing/)
    * [Progress in the Privacy Sandbox, October edition](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/progress-in-the-privacy-sandbox-2021-10/)


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 



1.  Erik Taubeneck (Facebook)
2.  Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
3.  Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
4.  Brad Lassey (Google Chrome)
5.  Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
6.  Daniel Rojas (Google Chrome)
7.  Phil Lee (Google Chrome)
8.  Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
9.  Alex Turner (Google Chrome)
10. Chris Evans (NextRoll)
11.  Maud Nalpas (Google Chrome)
12.  Marshall Vale (Google Chrome)
13. Mariana Raykova (Google)
14. Moshe Lehrer (Neustar)
15. Swati Lal (Yahoo)
16. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)


# Notes

**Announcements**



* Charlie: 
    * Wanted to discuss moving this work from WICG to PATCG. Andrew has a presentation on Response-header based registration. Developer-facing updates.
    * PATCG was just chartered. Mission is to incubate ads features in a privacy preserving manner. Seems to reflect this work, and a better fit than the WICG. I would encourage folks to take a look at the community group. Seems like the place where private ads work will happen.
* Erik T: +1 that suggestion
* Erik A
    * Very supportive of doing that. Good question is what does a transition look like? Would be discontinue this call immediately?
* Charlie
    * Probably wouldn’t stop this call today. I would encourage folks to join and get a feel for what the meeting cadence will be. Currently discussing that: [https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/4](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/4) 
    * After this call, I’ll open an issue just to document what we talked about today, and discuss how we could move forward.
* Erik A
    * I know the PATCG folks would prefer more F2F and less frequent work.
* Charlie
    * This is why I’d like folks to join to help drive those preferences.
* Mariana
    * How would this affect the MPC meeting?
* Erik A
    * I put a comment in there originally. I hope on that first call people can come and talk about what’s happening in the MPC space. There’s also the Birds of a Feather session at the IETF. We’ll have to decide as a group what the right path forward is.
* Erik T: Added issue on PATCG to the notes for meetings
    * Discussions about breakout groups → this could be a breakout group
    * Will want to pick a better time for inclusivity
* Charlie
    * A few discussions are happening next week that it would be great for folks here to get involved with. Erik A is hosting a [meeting about general MPC](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues/39), more focused and going deeper on MPC. I encourage folks to join. 
    * There is also a BoF (Birds of a Feather) at [IETF 112](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/112/agenda/) where a group of folks come to talk about a problem. There are a bunch of folks talking about a network protocol for an MPC specifically for aggregation. I think this relates to the group pretty closely because these protocols were initially specified for one type of use case, but if we want to use MPC for more use cases, we may want to extend this to work for different network topologies, etc. Whatever ends up getting standardized is something we could use in the W3C. The fee is $125.

**Consider Using Response Headers for Source Registration**



* Andrew
    * The idea is that the site that receives these requests would better be able to configure this, because it’s easier to change headers. 
    * This would also allow registering multiple reporting origins, which doesn’t quite work in the current model (would now require a separate HTTP response for each.)
* Charlie
    * On the security side, we’ve talked about trust token/blind signatures. I see this proposal sitting between what we have and that. In the current proposal, and publisher can fire off an event for any ad tech. That’s not that great, because you want the ad tech to be looped in on events that are happening. If there is attribution happening, you want to know if there are events that would effect. This solve that problem, based on the client being trustworthy. If we want to extend to non-trust worthy clients, then we’d add the blind signatures into that loop.
    * Today if you want to register a trigger, we have this HTTP way to do this. This aligns the controls and the security guarantees. The major con is unfortunate, but if you want to solve the security, you have to do something extreme like only allowing registering inside the ad tech iframe where we have a strong security boundary.
* John
    * I would just add, there is a section below that talks about in this design we have a URL and the client makes that response. Then on the server side, we can measure that an add happened. We could piggy back on existing network requests. This doesn’t work for clicks/navigations, because they don’t make a sub-network request.
* Charlie
    * The idea there is that you’d be giving up one dimension of publisher control, because now any 3rd party network request can act as a ad tech, vs requiring some sort of opt in via JS.
* John
    * If there are folks who are familiar with this, we’d like to hear about the trade offs here.
* Erik T
    * Privacy model q
    * If I am an ad-tech company and can execute JS, could this prevent me from registering this across, say 10 different domains that I own
* Charlie
    * I think this is just an API change, and anything else is orthogonal.
* Erik T
    * This would now not require collaboration with the ad tech.
* Charlie
    * There are two variants, one would allow this, one wouldn’t. We’re generally in favor of not being able to go around the publishers' backs, but this is a change from today, as any network request has access to cookies. 
    * Encourage folks to comment on the issue.

**Developer Facing Updates**



* Maud
    * First thing is we intend to extend the Origin Trial on the Event Level API.
    * Second update, one of the observations for those running an OT for the event level API was a divergence from cookie-based measurement. Due to clearing cookies, put out a blog post.
    * October edition on updates from the privacy sandbox. There’s an RSS feed to get updates.
* Charlie
    * For the intent to to extend OT, we’ll also update the developer mailing list.
* John
    * Chrome status bug is kept up to date, if you prefer that over the mailing list.

**Open Questions**



* Erik T	
    * Any updates on the Aggregation API?
* Charlie
    * We have much of it implemented. Main thing is the API surface. We also have an intermediate thing that is ready/almost ready, that is a separate binary. We’re looking to try and extend this. It will give you out encrypted reports. We’re looking to extend it so you don’t have to go through the flow. We’re exploring ways to offer it to developers.
    * In terms of the server side, we do have an open source implementation that can run on Google Cloud. It’s not completely compatible. We’re looking at two modes that can work in MPC mode and a single party mode with plain text reports. It’s available on the Google github account.
    * [https://github.com/google/privacy-sandbox-aggregation-service](https://github.com/google/privacy-sandbox-aggregation-service)
* Erik T
    * Would be nice to have a script.
* John
    * Want to make sure we have something available to everyone, but we don’t want to introduce differences and multiple code bases to keep up to date.