# Attribution Reporting API

April 19, 2021

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing


# Agenda



*   Introductions
*   Scribe volunteer: Charlie (Erik is backup)
*   New proposals
    *   [Event-api (VTC) doc](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/blob/main/event_attribution_reporting.md)
    *   [Cross device doc](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/blob/main/cross_device.md)
*   Basile: 5 mins → challenge
*   Any other business


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 



1. Ben Savage (Facebook)
2. Brian May (dstillery)
3. Charlie Harrison (Chrome)
4. Erik Taubeneck (Facebook)
5. Valentino Volonghi (NextRoll)
6. Andrew Knox (Facebook)
7. Larissa Licha (NextRoll)
8. Lamrani Alaoui Abdellah (Scibids)
9. Basile Leparmentier (Criteo)
10. Daniel Rojas (Google Chrome)
11. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
12. Maud Nalpas (Google Chrome)
13. Benjamin Case (Facebook)
14. Vincent Grosbois (Criteo)
15. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (IAB Tech Lab / eyeo GmbH)
16. Nicolas Chrysanthos (Criteo)
17. Alois Bissuel (Criteo)
18. Matt Zambelli (Neustar)
19. Aleksei Gorbushin (Walmart)
20. Przemyslaw Iwanczak (RTB House)
21. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
22. Shigeki Ohtsu (Yahoo! JAPAN)


# Notes



*   John Delaney (Google) presenting on event-level VTC support
    *   Generic explainer
    *   New API surfaces
    *   Currently, attribution sources tied to navigation
    *   In this API, two ways to register an arbitrary attribution source
        *   When you have an anchor element that has special attributes, can add another attribute that will handle it like a click
        *   Also includes a JS API if you don’t have an anchor element
        *   registerAttributionSource, browser will treat this like impression registration
    *   Treated differently
        *   New source type → “event” and “navigation”
    *   Different data you can associate with event sources
        *   Existing API, uses a redirect to a .well-known API
        *   New query param “event-source-trigger-data” matched up to event sources, vs navigation sources
    *   Rest of the explainer
        *   Privacy
*   Erik
    *   Is it possible to use these two in conjunction
    *   Convert from one to another?
*   John
    *   If you have an anchor tag with the attributes, browser will see an event source
    *   If the user clicks on it, it will also log a click source
*   Charlie
    *   Treated similarly for attribution
*   Controlling which attribution source to trigger
    *   Some developers may value certain clicks over certain views
    *   Attributionsourcepriority
    *   At click / view time you can set this attribution, highest priority attribution vs. last-touch
    *   E.g. can set clicks as highest priority over views
    *   More generic attribution model, prioritize certain classes of sources
*   Erik
    *   Scope of attribution?
*   John
    *   Attribution is scoped to reporting origin / advertiser
*   Abdellah
    *   One bit of data?
    *   Some use-cases not supported
    *   Giving a value to a given conversion, not allowed anymore
*   John
    *   It’s much easier to register event sources, so we need to restrict the API even more
    *   One bit of conversion-side data to capture value, you’d have to use something like the aggregate API to recover value
*   Abdellah
    *   3 bits can bucketize value, 1 bit more difficult
    *   Will dig into the aggregate API as a possible solution to this
*   John
    *   Event noising
    *   Listed as a speculative mitigation in the original explainer
    *   Spuriously converting / not converting various sources
    *   Better plausible deniability on whether a user actually converted or not
    *   Ad for shoes.example and received a report → won’t be sure if the user actually visited shoes.example
    *   In this regime we aren’t associated with a navigation. When you receive a report you are learning browsing history → user visited the advertiser site and converted
        *   New information leak → beefier privacy mitigations. This noise gives us that
        *   
*   Brian May
    *   Crediting of attribution events, any notions of adding stuff up
    *   Multiple view throughs, take a higher priority than a click, because the views may be more valuable to me
*   John
    *   Nothing that dynamic
    *   Each source gets its own independent priority
    *   Might be able to track this with first party information
        *   Could dynamically increase priority for views at serving time
    *   Other privacy restriction: **single reporting window**
        *   Avoids learning which window a source was triggered in
        *   This can encode more trigger-side information
        *   Configurable, so by changing expiry you can change the window
        *   More restricted # of windows
        *   All these interact with the event noising
*   Ben
    *   One bit of data for the trigger data, either a 0 / 1 (John: yes)
    *   IIRC, I could fire a 0 when someone loads the webpage and 1 when someone converts
        *   Only one of those is going to get counted
*   John
    *   Right now this isn’t possible, no trigger side priority
    *   No way to override
    *   Something worth talking about and adding support for.
*   Ben
    *   Current behavior?
*   John
    *   Only the first conversion will be fired, due to the “1 per view” mitigation
*   Ben: 3 views and then two conversions
*   John: would get two reports, actually unspecified
*   Ben: trying to find if there is an exploit where you stuff views and learn everyone’s page load
    *   Leaking browsing history
    *   Is there a rate limit?
*   John
    *   Two rate limits
    *   First one: traditional limit from the click through API, only a certain # of reports
    *   Second one: for a given publisher site, we look at the pending impressions that haven’t converted, limit # of advertiser sites in that set
    *   E.g. if the limit is 5, you could only have impressions for 5 pending advertisers at any one time
*   Ben: like a queue?
*   John: yes, fifo
*   Ben: can evict publishers?
*   John: not evicting publishers
    *   Evicting other impressions if there are too many advertisers
*   Ben: could evict ad-techs
*   John
    *   Yeah, we call it out in the explainer
*   Charlie:
    *   Designed to address the browsing history attack
*   Erik
    *   Could also do this attack with 0 bits of metadata, but would have to choose between tracking page loads and conversions
*   Brendan: it is valuable to know the users that are NYT users
*   Charlie: only the event noising is the mitigation here
*   Valentino: can a browser extension achieve the same result?
*   John: Yes presumably, extensions can do this too
    *   Nothing we can do to prevent the extensions from calling the API
*   Charlie
    *   The current model would require the reporting domain to reply to an HTTP request, so an extension would need to trick the domain into making that request.
    *   It’s really difficult to distinguish between a DOM element that’s created by an extension or a script on the page. That’s the highest level permission that an extension can get, but once they have it, it’s hard for the browser to enforce security between the page and the extension. Best mitigation is to add a server call. If you had an extension that could do this, you could also reconstruct 3rd party cookies.
*   Valentino: More interested in extensions that might try to break the ad experience.
    *   The extension could likely just identify these requests and drop them on the floor. I don’t think protection from extensions is something that we could prevent.
*   Erik
    *   Might be slightly out of scope, I can open an issue
    *   One thing that is still unclear, how does the linkage between impression and trigger event happen?
    *   Multiple different campaigns at once
    *   Social.exmaple to shoes.example , only want to convert on running shoes
    *   Ad for gym bags, only want to fire for the gym bags
    *   Can we filter out the things that aren’t relevant?
*   John
    *   Something we are trying to solve with the worklet technique
    *   Some information to see about the attribution source
    *   We could consider some mechanism like this in the event-level API to address this, good to **follow up on the worklet issue**
*   Charlie
    *   You get more information leakage by dropping some report. Now you learn that the user bought the gym bag, where as you wouldn’t have learned that before. You could use the reporting domain to “hack” this. If you have 2 merchants under one domain, you could use bags.ad-tech.com and shoes.ad-tech.com, you would get that property by specifying that reporting origin up front. You could also imagine firing 1000 views then reporting on just 1 trigger event and being able to link it up. Unlike the click one, where you’d just have to choose one.
    *   Possibly an additional privacy mitigation needed!
*   Abdellah
    *   Reporting window
        *   If we have a window of 30 days, only get the report after 30 days
        *   Hard to learn a model with data that late, to estimate right promotion of conversions
        *   Would we use the aggregate API for this use-case?
*   Charlie
    *   There are some workarounds, but they usually involve artificially reducing the lookback. Some users have their lookbacks but back to 2 days, some to 7 days, etc, and then do some modeling on top of those numbers. Anything involving real-time data (or near real time), will be difficult in the event level API. Ideally these use cases could use the aggregate API, where we are considering shorter delays.
*   Abdellah
        *   The aggregate API is harder to use because the impression data is more restricted?
*   Charlie
    *   Yes that’s correct
*   Erik
    *   Privacy of this and potential attacks to get browsing history, a couple things could be considered
    *   1. Limiting entropy on the source side as well, harder to track and individual
    *   2. iOS is doing this, **only allow one to be registered at a time**, so there is some minimum / rate limit. Mitigates the attacks that involve logging a 1000 at once
*   Charlie
    *   Allowing only one at a time is something we’ve thought about. Worth thinking about more.
    *   Limiting entropy should be solved by the aggregate API, in principle you can get more utility for the same privacy budget. In our taxonomy, that would be under the aggregate API.
*   John
    *   Restricting bits on click side → only helps in some sites
    *   Small sites, doesn’t help you a lot
    *   Aggregate API offers better privacy there
*   Aleksei Gorbushin
    *   From walmart, we have more interesting use-cases
    *   Did not fully understand the document
    *   When the buyer buys something, later, we are trying to ask some private eye, trying to track the person on the web
    *   “Have you seen this guy on other sites”?
        *   Yes I saw on a list of sites (impressions)
        *   I prefer to attribute to certain impressions (given a list)
    *   What we are trying to do here
        *   At time the buyer buys something
        *   At the same time we ask the browser, by the way, where have you seen the ads, browser will return the list
*   Basile
    *   Make a small announcement
    *   We are organizing a challenge with ADV (?)
    *   Big ML conferences, inspired by the measurement API to try to tackle optimization
        *   Inspired by the API, not the actual API
    *   We will provide a dataset, some prize money
    *   Want some researchers to work together to learn how we can do this on aggregate data
    *   One of the points we would like support is to help us set some of the right parameters, e.g. epsilon
    *   Target is to start the challenge in early May, working on it quite extensively
    *   Hope it will really help the industry, learn a lot from it
    *   Opening a github issue very soon to announce