# Attribution Reporting API

June 14, 2021

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing


# Agenda



*   Introductions
*   Scribe volunteer
*   (John Delaney) Publisher reporting ([#96](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/96))
*   (Erik Anderson) aggregate reporting helper service threat model ([#157](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/157))
*   (John Delaney) Debugging ([#160](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/160))
*   Any other business


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 



1. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (IAB Tech Lab / eyeo GmbH)
2. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
3. Ben Savage (Facebook)
4. Brian May (dstillery)
5. Erik Taubeneck (Facebook)
6. Andrew Knox (Facebook)
7. Aleksei Gorbushin (Walmart)
8. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
9. Jack J (Google)
10. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
11. Ryan Avecilla (Neustar)
12. Larissa Licha (NextRoll)
13. Valentino Volonghi (NextRoll)
14. Abdellah Lamrani Alaoui (Scibids)
15. Marshall Vale (Google Chrome)
16. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
17. Denis Charles (Microsoft)
18. Jan Jechna (Xandr)
19. Joel Pfeiffer (Microsoft)
20. Chenkai Weng (Microsoft)
21. Jonasz Pamuła (RTB House)
22. Julien Delhommeau (Xandr)
23. James Fung (Neustar)


# Notes


## Publisher reporting ([#96](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/96))



*   John Delany: recently reported to both publisher and advertiser, both sites need to agree on who receives the report -- fairest solution. Publishers might want a 3rd party to handle this, so not good to send by default. What is the scope? Site level? (always give reports to this site) Event/click? Each click or event picks behavior. These are outstanding issues, any comments on these, or can we make a proposal?
*   Erik Taubeneck: Parity with Apple PCM is attractive, they are sending to both to prevent information asymmetry.
*   John: that is a good place to start, we can evaluate again later if we see lots of reports end up going to 404s
*   Erik: can configure an ad tech company to receive on your behalf. You get to pick if you get it.
*   John: it’s different in PCM because they don’t have 3rd party reports.
*   Charlie Harrison: there are a lot of things that make this complicated, especially 3rd party reporting. It’s ok in privacy model for publisher to get a specific report, but doesn’t work for an advertiser because they could leak information cross site with the report. We enforce no leaks today by making the two sides line up. A way to fix this is get right of reporting origin is having different reports with a separate attribution scope: today attribution scope is hardcoded to reporting site+attribution site. Some of these techniques don’t work well on aggregate reports. Sending the same information to both sides “splits” the privacy budget since they can both query. Issue is independent noise sources in the aggregate API. If they both get reports separately, they could just pool their budget. Unaware of any solutions that don’t degrade privacy or utility - single budget punishes honest players.
*   John: Aggregate reports are of dubious value. The encoding chosen by reporting origin destroys utility. 
*   Ben Savage: why can’t this be on by default? What is the motivation, what downside is there for publisher getting reports?
*   John: by default both get a report, either can choose not to send to other. Per PCM discussion, competitors might want to withhold reports.
*   Ben: can you explain differently? Example: Amazon runs ad on Facebook. Who gets what and how?
*   John: by default both get a report. Amazon can choose to not let FB get a report, neither gets one. PCM does a similar agreement I think, but you have to ask John Wilander. Give both sides equal say on who gets report.
*   Ben: either both or neither, but never just one?
*   Charlie: we let either side forfeit their right to reports. Both sides need to say the same reporting destinations. Strong positions with reasonable arguments on both sides.
*   Ben: since clicks are 64 bits, could you sneak user id into click id? If I am an ecom website I have a set of people who bought things with addresses, I may be able to intersect sets and get more information
*   Charlie: threat model assumes it has set of attributed and unattributed, the trick is to make this match attack difficult. Currently the way we address is with the delay, to give a chance for it to “build up”. Not perfect, but current threat model assumes everyone is colluding.
*   Brian May: how do you maintain the config of who gets what? Who can read/write/delete?
*   John: minimally invasive, a static file. At the end of the day, the publisher site needs to specify where they want their reports. Wher eit lives (well-known) etc. is up to debate
*   Brian: lots of parties interact with a publisher, most of the people interacting in open RTB will not be known to publisher. Given open browsing, there’s little information beyond bid parameters
*   John: global site parameters are easiest, you just have one default and they look it up. If you need more sophisticated behavior it makes the API complex
*   Brian: argue in favor of single default to keep complexity low
*   John: agree
*   Charlie: other place for config: attribute on each event. Does that add complexity?
*   John: If pub have to go through the party rendering ads to configure this, it’s irksome


## Aggregate Reporting Helper Service Threat Model ([#157](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/157))



*   Erik Anderson: meta issue covering similar concepts, let’s be explicit about threats. Concrete example: if labels are visible to parties, and if parties collude does that ruin it? Charlie had said it depends on size of domain, may leak in clear on small domains. On reporting origin report: if either helper colludes with reporting origin is that a breach? Or do the helpers need to collude with each other?
*   Charlie: point is to support ads measurement. Main threat is reporting colluding with one of the helpers. If reporting origin and helpers collude, all bets are off. Without this, there is no point of MPC? Some benefit. What can we achieve is a single helper is malicious: a reduced but non-zero level of privacy. Concrete example: degraded epsilon value (double the epsilon of honest running), or DP degrades to k-anon. In practice this could be more than you expect. Obvious way to get that is helpers sample noise independently.
*   Andrew Knox: Agreed that the MPC is a lot of effort, if the helpers collude it breaks it. I would argue just if helpers collude, the reporting party doesn’t need to be a part of it. Is there a risk if just the helpers collude? I would think so.
*   Charlie: Only reason I brought the reporting origin in is that they are the party that knows what the buckets are. The helper parties know the size of the input as well. I don’t know the value of an-unnoised histogram in an unknown domain.
*   Erik T: histogram algorithm is honest-but-curious, also should consider poisoning, that a helpers could ruin the outcome.
*   Erik A: the real key may be is the policy for helper registration
*   Charlie: it’s harder to collude with more parties. Maybe we can find two parties that we can be more sure will be honest. Maybe there are tiers of trust, exact mechanisms not specified yet.
*   Mehul Parsana: do we need to do point distributed function?  We already assume they don’t collude.
*   Charlie: DPF is not necessarily required, could accept lesser techniques that assume no collusion. Would prefer something easier.
*   Erik T: are we set on being exactly 2 helpers?
*   Charlie: two is initial proposal, not set in stone but easy place to start. DPF doesn’t extend to 3+ parties without asymmetric trust.
*   Erik T: is this for the MPC , the DP or both?
*   Charlie: both. 
*   Charlie: on lightweight heavy hitters paper they outline heavy hitters, they can verify 1 hot vector. May extend to verifying vectors with ranges.
*   Mehul: is there a github repo where this is tracked? DFP implementation, etc.
*   Erik T: consider covert instead of fully malicious. If you can detect cheating, you can ban a server. As long as you can detect cheating you can punish
*   Charlie: add to issue. Does that require routing?
*   Erik T: probabilistically you supply proofs.


## Debugging ([#160](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/160))



*   John: check out the debugging issue
*   Charlie: if you have implemented, please send feedback on issue. We can resume discussion in a later meeting
