# Attribution Reporting API

Dec 13, 2021

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda

Add agenda topics here!



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Introductions
* Scribe volunteer: Charlie Harrison & Erik Taubeneck
* (David Turner) [Issue 223](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/223): Invalid traffic detection 
    * [ASTRAPIA](https://github.com/google/ads-privacy/tree/master/proposals/astrapia) presentation
* (Charlie Harrison) Require [noopener](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Link_types/noopener) for API invocation ([https://github.com/privacycg/private-click-measurement/issues/94](https://github.com/privacycg/private-click-measurement/issues/94)) 
    * Default to noopener if API is specified?
    * Ensures destination page cannot script the source page
    * **Question: breaking use-cases where the dest page needs to script the source page?**
* (Charlie Harrison) Require HTML attribute / script access for conversion pings?
    * [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/91](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/91)
    * To align with https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/261


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 



1. David Turner (Google Ad Traffic Quality)
2. Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
3. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
4. Brian May (dstillery)
6. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
7. Phillipp Schoppmann (Google)
8. Erik Taubeneck (Meta)
9. Betül Durak (Microsoft)
10. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
11. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
12. Aditya Desai (Google)
13. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
14. Eric Trouton (Google)


# Notes


## ASTRAPIA



* David Turner:
* Addressing the needs of invalid traffic detection
* Overview of basic requirements for invalid traffic detection. Applies to all ad events / conversion events
* What makes it tricky is that we need to do manual analysis to discover emerging abuse vector, as fraudsters innovate and try to get past defenses
* As we develop new types of attribution types of filters, human analysis are needed
* Another aspect: being able to respond to advertiser escalation. Events that advertisers believe are invalid
* Human analysis is one important aspect
* Another aspect: building the new types of attribution filters. Trying ML models.
* Third aspect: where do we deploy the IVT models? Before events are generated or after the fact to correct events?
* 3 important aspects
    * Human analysis
    * How to train the model
    * How to deploy
* Attribution reporting: can 3 be addressed? Seems difficult
* What enhancements could support these 3 requirements?
    * Not a lot of bits in the event-level API, human analysis is difficult, might not get good precision / recall training off the event-level API
    * Aggregate API - challenging, how to do arbitrary slicing / dicing to find the attacks? How to train models off of aggregates?
    * One possibility: we allow for IVT detection, fully encrypt events, only accessible within a trusted server (e.g. agg servers…)
    * Allow arbitrary queries as needed
    * Training new ML models
    * Deploying the models directly within the trusted server
    * Get spam cleaned results and non-spam cleaned results
* How to generate these IVT data within aggregate events? Spit out stream of classifier for event-level data
* Brian May:
    * You touched on encryption & guaranteeing flows are trusted to have originated where they say they are
    * This is a good step in the right direction for IVT
    * Always the question of validating the validator, etc. but move in the right direction
    * Trusted servers → get into the question of whose servers. Who are we trusting / what are we trusting them with?
* David T:
    * Yes, true for any proposal using trusted servers, want to kick off the discussion of a basic need.
* Brian May:
    * Involved with the anti-fraud community group (https://www.w3.org/community/antifraud/)
* Charlie: More detail on model training / evaluating
* David: Let say you discover some new attack, new signal
    * Believe through additional analysis, seems to correlate with what other advertisers might be seen as invalid attributed events
    * Train some kind of model / deny list to find entities that trigger the signal.
    * Verify that they match where advertisers have been complaining, other known signs of attack
    * How can we deploy the defense, can we make sure we have ways of correcting, or do them before an event occurs?
    * IVT analysis can be done in an event-level way, ACL restricted, etc.
* Erik T
    * Is there a mechanism that you’ve proposed to prevent the system from being abused to track users, etc?
* David:
    * Prove through auditing purposes
* Erik T:
    * How could you distinguish anti-abuse from malicious activity
* David: agree. Need to think about this.
* Erik T: Current agg proposal has strict limits on what can be leaked. Is there a reason why this system couldn’t do it?
* David: One concern is that we have lots of analysts looking at this, privacy budgeting makes things difficult. We do want to do more research on this
* Brian May: There is a parallel need on the side of the financial underpinnings, want to get access to what really happened if disputes happened. Suggests that we might want some means to contest something, some arbitrator, make an assessment.
* David: we want analysts continually monitoring, not emergency break-glass
* Brian May: implies we want to have a full fidelity channel, or at least a meaningful subset of the data, that eventually gets aggregated up. Needs to be backed up by something that has not been modified
* Erik T: push back against that slightly. Even now any audit that might resolve discrepancies is based on imperfect systems. Error margins are smaller today, they are not perfect. Data gets lost in transit, not every db gets it right. We are changing ground rules to add noise. People will need to build their contracts on top of that. Not tenable to have special rules.
* Charlie: agree with Erik
* Phillipp: Just because there is an interactive system, doesn’t mean it has to be non-private, we can still have a privacy budget
* Charlie: Yea possible, but might be very difficult.
* Erik T: Another way to get more juice out of more privacy budget is to increase the data set size. Antifraud is a thing where all parties are trying to prevent it, might be able to find alliances where you could bring data together and get a lot more utility for the same privacy budget.
* Brian May: Perhaps overeager when I suggested an in-the-clear dataflow. What we are talking about doing here is not unlike something like banking. People are constantly trying to figure out are the people following the rules. If the majority ads traffic follows the rule, easier to follow-up for anomaly detection
* Erik T: agree with that. If there were agreed upon global functions that could relax the budget, it would be harder to abuse.
* Brian May: various signings / encryptions, etc
* Charlie: not sufficient for adspam?
* David: just to close off
    * Go back to requirements. Let’s figure out what we can do to further strengthen the APIs.


## (Charlie Harrison) Require [noopener](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Link_types/noopener) for API invocation



* Charlie:
* Issue from PCM, might copy it over. In some cases the API is invoked with a click, and that allows some information to be transferred back. This proposal only allows you to use the API if the destination site doesn’t allow for information to be sent back. Can be done with a tag or policy. If this flow is possible, say open a pop up and the script can write back to the source site, it over comes the point of the API.
* Seems reasonable, I don’t know of use cases where this API is used for ads. Often times ads are an untrusted thing, and you try to protect you from. If a user clicks and ad and that ad then gets access to your document, that seems like something the publisher wouldn’t want.
* Seems like something we could have alignment with Safari on. Exact proposal isn’t firmed up. Debate is if you’d be opted in to a “noopener” policy by using the API, if there was a mismatch you’d get an error. The other is that you’d have to specify an additional attribute. 
* If we’re really concerned, we may be able to do some metric collection in Chrome.
* Brian May:
    * Always would be deployed ad creative, so wouldn’t be undue burdon to add that attribute.
* Charlie:
    * Appropriate to some degree. Have gotten some feedback that it can be burdensome if you have a lot of ad formats. Less about adoption and more about developer ergonomics. What is the default vs predictability tradeoff? I don’t have a strong preference, but both will require the same kind of going into every creative and changing it to update.
* Brian:
    * If there is a possibility you’d break someone’s campaign by assuming their intent, you should make sure it’s explicit.
* Charlie:
    * Kind of where I’m leaning. Avoid surprising people.
* Erik
    * Is there extra information revealed using this API in conjunction with the JS backchannel? If you are doing that already, who cares, already a privacy violation
* Charlie:
    * Potentially you are revealing more. But only in a limited circumstance. It’s really limited. Jump from site A to site B and forward some identified, but maybe you can add a bit more information. Maybe it’s possible if you extended the scope broader. Given that, why do we care? I think the answer is two fold:
        * Want APIs to be a well lit path for doing things for a privacy preserving way. If you can use these in a way that would allow this, you can shoot yourself in the foot. 
        * At a high level, it makes the API conceptually cleaner.
    * Don’t think it’s P0, and Safari is already planning it. Might be a place we can interoperate.
* Brian
    * One reason to do it is to clarify the intent.
* Charlie
    * One reason not to do it is to allow for migration flow. Might want to do it while the other is in testing flow. Not obvious that this is used for ads measurement.
    * If you think of a use case that breaks, please comment on the PCM issue.


## (Charlie Harrison) Require HTML attribute / script access for conversion pings?



* Charlie:
* Talked about issue 261 for a while now, trying to align the impression ping with the conversion ping. One aspect that’s unclear about it’s impact. With the impression registration, we still wanted to have an HTML or JS on the page where the response to the request configures the header. This means that the document is opting in, not just a random URL request. You need JS access, ability to change the HTML on the page. If you’re embedded, you need a policy to allow this to flow through.
* Want to know if we can have that same security on conversion pings. The legacy system may not be compatible with that. Sometimes there are legacy tags that are just image tags. If the change would require an advertiser to do mass retagging. I don’t have data from Google on this, just want to flag this as a potential issue. If we don’t require this, you could have the events potentially registered by arbitrary parties.
* Would this be a big adoption issue? If we don’t require JS, do we think the security risk is ok?
* Erik: the events that are fired in the conversion side would be consuming privacy budget owned by that website, right? So presumably that site wants some control over the events that can be fired that can consume its budget. You would want some permission model
* Charlie
    * Right way to think about it. If I’m an advertiser and don’t want my users to be tracked by arbitrary users. I would want to be in control. In terms of how to give control.
    * In terms of giving control, you can either give fine grained control, which is what we want to do in terms of impression registration. You need to have root access to the page. Doesn’t require us to build something custom and new.
    * If we didn’t want to force retagging, we would need something like a new permissions model. Would need the ability to opt-in / opt-out certain domains. There is some thought in the permissions spec, but it’s not an exact match. Is there a way to default enable the good things and opt out the bad things.
    * Could allow everything by default, and then allows to opt out certain domains. Makes me nervous. Chance sites might find that annoying. By default something bad.
* Erik: Couldn’t do the opposite? I.e. opt into allow everything?
* Charlie: Sites that aren’t willing to update old tags might also not be willing to update a header. That may be the best compromise. Seems to me that it’s maybe harder to change an HTTP header than to update all their tags.
* Brian: At the risk of being pedantic, adding work arounds to help people out adds two bad side effects. People who don’t understand still misunderstand, and people who use work arounds will continue to use it and won’t update their sites. If you do it this way, people will do it once and forget that it’s there.
* Charlie: One other concern with a global permission, we already have one. We’d set it up so that the opposite is true. If we introduce a new permission that’s an inversion, and they operate simultaneously, it could be confusing. Permission scheme isn’t robust enough for arbitrary setups.
* David Dabbs: When you say “permissions policy”, can you specify what that is?
* Charlie: Here’s a [link](https://www.w3.org/TR/permissions-policy-1/). Used to be called feature policy. Is used for embedded frames. In the current API, you have to delegate the usage down the embedded frame tree. Could also design something custom, but all things equal it’s better to use an existing solution.
* David: Policy would be set by top level document, or embedded?
* Charlie: Designed it today so that by default it’s enabled in the top level, and you can selectively delegate that by a tag on an iframe. Designed that so that publisher wouldn’t have to do work.

**Next meeting is Jan 10th.**
