# Attribution Reporting API

**Next meeting: **September 19th, 2022 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer: John Delaney

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc)



* Status update of APIs in Chrome’s Origin Trial
* PATCG status update @TPAC
* Permission policy issues
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/558](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/558)
* (Alois) Aggregation service & epsilon budgeting
* (Shobhit) Additional debugging asks & multiple impressions registrations
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/525](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/525)
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/549](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/549)
* Service worker registration
    * Chromium bug found
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/550](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/550)
    * Does anyone want to use a service worker to register the API vs. responses from network? E.g. offline?
* Optional error reports
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/514](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/514)
* Decouple Impression Expiry and Reporting window for Event level Attribution API
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/522](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/522)
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/556](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/556)
* Sensitivity bounding
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/249](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/249)


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1.  Brian May (dstillery)
2.  Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
3. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
4.  Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
5. Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)
6.  Shobhit Saxena (Google Ads)
7.  Erik Taubeneck (Meta)
8.  Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
9. Sid Sahoo (Google Chrome)
10.  John Delaney (Google Chrome)
11. Akash Nadan (Google Chrome)
12. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
13. Amandeep Aggarwal (Amazon)
14. Zach Mastrromatto (Google Chrome)
15. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)


# Notes

## Status update of APIs in Chrome’s Origin Trial

Charlie: 50% in Chrome’s Canary/Dev/Beta channels, 1% in Chrome Stable Android & Desktop. Will provide updates on blink-dev, attribution-reporting-api-dev mailing list

## PATCG status update @TPAC

Charlie: Attendance from all major browser vendors.

A set of spec editors were chosen for a spec, trying to document the major design decisions that the APIs takes. E.g. on or off device attribution, privacy properties. 

This is planned to be presented at the next PATCG meeting. Hopefully this document allows us to evaluate these decisions, and look at use-case coverage.

Brian: Good discussion in TPAC meeting. Browser may provide different levels of support, but can have a consistent API across bowsers.

Charlie: On the Chrome side, we are committed to working on this proposal and fully evaluating it. Discussions in the PATCG will not affect short term availability of Attribution Reporting API, can be seen more as a future spec.

## Permission policy issues

Alois: While the solution of the default works for now, want to understand what this looks like when the origin trial goes away.

There are a number of cases that require a lot of nesting, especially for A/B testing, which will cause a lot of issues/work to delegate the Permissions policy.

Charlie: There is also an issue with redirects?

Alois: if you assign the permission policy to a domain, that is later redirected, the permission wont be delegated.

Charlie: Want to ask if other folks on the call also see this an issue, and if there is other support looking into this issue?

Charlie: Spoke with Ian Clelland at TPAC about this issue, had some ideas about extending the permission policy language.

There are two streams: all opt-in or all opt-out. There is a clean design where, if a policy is all opt-out, anyone who cares about the policy knows they will need to opt-out. Enabled by default in top document, children require delegation, but allow for recursive delegation. All grandchild frames will get the permission by default.

Any frame within the delegated tree would need to explicitly opt-out.

Not proposing this as something that will definitely change in the permission policy spec, but trying to get directional feedback on whether this addresses the permission policy issue.

Brian: Want to allow top-level page to allow attribution by default, but a frame would require permission. That delegation would give default on attribution reporting in the chain.

Charlie: Every single party that embeds an iframe needs to explicitly delegate permission to the child. In this case, only the top-level frame would need to do this work.

Brian: If permission gets disabled, it may be very complicated to diagnose.

Charlie: There will be an explicit signal if someone disables, but there is an implicit path where something can be enabled.

Charlie: My goal was to make this footgun hard to fire, it seems difficult for a frame to do this by accident. Don’t see a lot of alternatives that fulfill these properties. Another agenda topic, error reporting, could be used to help transparency here for catching breakage.

Charlie: Happy revealing all of the information that we can that don’t violate privacy properties. Issue will be security, can we tell you the party that disabled. But knowing the context is important for diagnosing. If failing on 1%, is it one site or spead across all publishers.

Brian: If you can’t tell me the identity directly, will require going up the stack and eventually cutting someone off. This may be problematic if that party is not responsible.

Charlie: Makes sense operating under the assumption you are not serving on part of traffic to solve this issue. Minimizing the damage makes sense. Alois any thoughts?

Alois: Haven’t had enough time to fully process the response, but generally seems reasonable. Error reports sounds helpful as well assuming the overall loss is low to begin with.

Charlie: Worthwhile to file a separate issue on error reporting, as regardless of the default you will end up in a failure state.

John D.: I think it sounds good, if you’re disable attribution reporting, error reporting should still work. 

Charlie: Makes sense, perhaps this can be a more general form of permission error reporting, rather than tied to any individual API.

## Aggregation service & epsilon budgeting

Alois: There have been hints in issues that there will some form of epsilon budgeting in the aggregation service, but there is none documented in the explainer. The idea would be you have some form of epsilon budget per campaign.

Robert: We are not budgeting on a time basis, but rather on a per-privacy key basis. Not time based epsilon budgeting. Currently the epsilon is adjustable, using the debug reports/aggregation service now you are able to adjust the epsilon.

Alois: My question is on the end state of this, will it be fixed to a single number?

Erik: For ARA, this is managed on device, whereas in IPA the server needs to track some budget.

Charlie: That is partly true, we can bound the users contribution to a histogram, but the output still needs some enforcement/epsilon budget on the server side. It is a more hybrid approach versus full-on device vs full-central models

Charlie:  May need to update some documentation to make this clear.

## Additional debugging asks

Shobit: We feel that the debugging reports in ARA should allow an adtech to directly measure cookie based reports which would not be processed by the API. There are a number of reports which would be useful: success reports (when an event is registered), failure reports (when an event is rejected), and also reports on the various rate limits.

On the trigger side, success and failure reports would also be useful, would like to understand that a trigger is rejected.

When attribution was successful, but the report limits were hit, want to know that limits were hit. Similarly, if  filtering produces an empty set, would like a report.

Want to get reports on expiry of sources, to be able to better understand what is happening within the browser without reconstructing on the server-side.

Charlie: Could we split these into reports which: are short term and require the  debug cookie, and which are long term privacy neutral?

Shobhit: All of these would be short term/require the cookie and are critical to evaluate the API within the trial.

Brian: Most of what is being asked for is related to cookies. Important to signal on whats succeeding/failing, but most likely want to continue to get these after cookies are gone,

Shobhit: Some of these, specifically related to registration, may be fairly innocuous privacy wise.

Charlie: Would be helpful to get a rough prioritization of these reports. Especially since some of these may be more complicated implementation/design wise.

Brian: This discussion has me wondering if people would avoid specific publishers if there were a disproportionate number of opt-outs for attribution reporting. Identified by “spending a bunch of money on this site, but not seeing registrations”.

John: One question, not too different from the flow where registration is working (see very few registrations). Want to disentangle low conversion rate vs. failure? Not clear how different is low CVR.

Brian: If we could get more information, we can be more thoughtful about spending budget

Alois: When you are measuring on low conversions, if you are tracking rare conversions you may never get enough signal, e.g. could learn that 30% of you sources weren’t actually shown.

Charlie: Seems related to the permission policy issue before. Will always want to know witht the finest granularity what caused something to fail. The real challenge will be designing sustainable solutions, but I do want to make sure that we have a solution that is sustainable enough when the debug cookie goes away we are not at square 1.

Brian: may be abel to leverage the aggregation API, to maybe not get the most fine grained information, but at least know where things are breaking down.

## Multiple impressions registrations

Shobhit: Many advertisers are setup where conversions can happen on one of many of their conversion domains. You should be able to register multiple sources in a single click chain that are treated as views. Add a capability to downgrade clicks to views as this happening. When a click is registered, may want to treat as a view.

For debugging reports, will want to add destination field if they were using the same source event id for multiple different sources targeting different sites.

Charlie: on the downgrade, this is because the landing page wont match?

Shobhit: When we are redirecting, we may not know what domain the user will land at, so we may not be able to fully predict. Registering a view would be useful.

Charlie: How do you plan on dealing with the problem of deduplication, if you are firing multiple impressions targetting multiple sites, will you run into double counting?

Shobhit: Should be able to associate these server side.

John: Wanted to break down into new behavior and “syntactic sugar”. Today with a click you could also register a bunch of views. Single response vs. other is maybe on the sugar. Whereas downgrade for mismatch is new behavior.

Shobhit: Multiple registration use-case is far more important

Chandan: integration side for shadow registration needs a lot of client-side changes

John: To clarify one other thing, today in the API you can redirect yourself in a chain and register many events. We can evaluate whether multiple redirects work here

Shobit: it conflicts with user experience

Brian: Intruiging issuee, may want to look at this in a future meeting. Redirects never sound like a good solution.
