# Attribution Reporting API

June 13, 2022 @ 8-9am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: John Delaney
* Scribe volunteer: 
* Recent / in progress explainer updates
    * Expanded API surface
        * JS API removal (in favor of `fetch`)
        * &lt;script> support
        * Request piggybacking support (incl. navigation)
    * Small changes to aggregatable reports
    * Optional event-level registration
* Issue [485](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/485) feedback on epsilon
* Issue [439](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/439) hide the true number of reports

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc)


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Alex Cone (IAB Tech Lab)
2. Brian May (dstillery)
3. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)
4. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
5. Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
6. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
7. Russell Stringham (Adobe)
8. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
9. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
10.  Stacy Andrade (Adtheorent)
11.  Sid Sahoo (Google Chrome)
12.  Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
13.  Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
14.  Aditya Desai (Amazon)
15.  
16.  
17.  
18.  


# Notes

**Recent / in progress explainer updates**



* John D: mostly targeted at changing the API surface to aid ergonomics
* Number of changes, going to walk through each of the changes. Walk through the explainer, if that’s easier.
* **View registration**: First change is about view registration, how to make that simpler.
    * Old: registerSource API
    * Not ideal API. Lots of systems use view pings, XHR, fetch, jQuery
    * Modified the eligibility constraint on views
    * As long as the request has the  `Attribution-Reporting-Eligible` header, it can register sources.
    * Existing fetch requests / XHR requests can upgrade easily
    * &lt;img> API and others will include this header added by the browser
* **Allowing to register attributionsrc on &lt;script> tags**
* Request piggybacking. We don’t require the parallel path for all new registrations
    * Attributionsrc is now optional. As long as the `attributionsrc` attribute is present, the default request will work, don’t need two requests. Backwards compatible with what we had before, and ergonomic improvement to avoid the separate ping
* Brian May: confusion about blank attributionsrc, will people just add this to random stuff without thinking?
* John: Possibly can move to an enum value
* Brian May: Can we monitor how often attributionsrc is registered and you don’t get the right response back
* John: Yes it’s possible browsers can monitor, though a gap might be expected (spam, etc)
* Alois Bissuel: Quite a few ways to call this API. A bit concerned about all these ways we can use it, especially during the OT. Glad to have reassurance that the old ways are not deprecated by the end of the OT.
    * Any form of hints about the preferred way
* John: Useful if folks could let us know what they intend to use. So many ways to call into the API is a product of the existing ecosystem, somewhat by design.
    * If it turns out ad-tech really like having two pings, or if they will never use parallel pings
    * OT support in Chrome, we are planning on publishing guidance, how these changes interact with the trial. Should follow-up there. Can get devrel folks to give guidance.
* Alois: where should I seek support?
* John: Mailing list we have attribution-reporting-api-dev@ and separate github repo for Google Chrome lab experiments
* Brian May: Initial reaction about attributionsrc for lots of different kinds of tags is to wonder about people who don’t understand what they are doing, have `attributionsrc` on all sorts of elements.
* John: Yes want to make sure we aren’t upgrading every request. Agree with the concern.
* Brian May: If you couple allowing the attribute on HTML elements with not having any URL defined for the attribute, you might get close to voodoo magic where people expect it to have an effect but it doesn’t
* Sid Sahoo: If you want to cover viewability, is it still JS gated (e.g. send the request once the ad is viewable)?
* John D: Yes it’s still on the JS side to determine viewability
* John D: this piggybacking also applies to navigation requests, href requests. Will get the eligible header and the navigation will proceed normally.
* **Aggregate report changes**
    * Some format changes
    * In the ad-tech’s report we have moved a few fields from the top-level JSON into shared_info. This was done because we were duplicating values in the top-level and shared info
    * Removed the privacy budget key directly from the shared_info. Agg service will produce the privacy budget key rather than the browser doing that. More duplication to achieve the same goal. Shouldn’t be a huge API-shape change.
    * Removed the source_site from the report cleartext at reporting time.
* Brian May: which was the source_site and why remove it?
* Charlie Harrison: privacy reasons
* **John D: final change: if you only invoked the aggregate API, the event-level API would send a default report with metadata 0. Not possible to just send aggregates without eating up the event-level budget**
    * Change: if you don’t specify event-level data, the browser does not generate a report.
    * Event-registration optional, now you can save event-level budget for more valuable conversions. More flexibility.
    * No change to the API itself
    * Feedback welcome, on issues or the PRs
* Brian: Is there a place where the changes are listed?
* Charlie: Developer updates pending

**Issue [485](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/485) feedback on epsilon**



* Charlie:
    * Adtech can denote the epsilon used in aggregation, and an explanation of why that epsilon is useful
    * This can be a general one-stop shop for feedback on the results of the aggregation service
    * WIll be useful for us to ship some configurations for noise parameters
    * Considering doing a similar feedback template for event-level reports, but this is a bit more difficult as noise is static
    * Useful to know if this is easy to fill out, or if it will be difficult to provide feedback in this form
* Alois
    * Happy to fill out, not enough data in the OT to have represensatitive data
* Charlie
    * That’s understandable, we dont expect anyone to be at this stage. Once the OT ramps up in the future, hopefully we can get this feedback
* Brian
    * Will need to re-raise again in the future when there is data to put this back on folks’ radars
* Charlie
    * Ack yes, still want to get feedback on the template itself

**Issue [439](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/439) hide the true number of reports**



* Charlie
    * Schedule aggregate reports after the user has made a conversion (with an hour of random delay)
    * We tack on a bunch of metadata (advertiser, encrypted payload).
    * Before we even invoke the aggregation service, leaking information as the presence of a report is based on cross-site data
    * Being able to count the total number of conversion reports based on aggregate reports is problematic
    * Some of the solutions involve sending “null reports”, which would not contribute to aggregation. The browser could send this when it sees a conversions, even with no associated impression
    * Investing in techniques to hide this number. Removing the source_site from the report also helps achieve this.
    * Trying not to overload the service/servers with these null reports, will need to start slow on sending these null reports.
* Aloise:
    * How much noice is being added? The number of reports is useful when querying, e.g. for a small advertiser we might only want a small number of dimensions.
* Charlie
    * You can classify the amount of “hiddenness” as a sliding scale. At the extreme, the number of reports is proportional to the number of trigger registrations. This is best for privacy if null reports are unconditional. 
    * I’m not sure whether that is enough info to look at the number of not null reports. We are not currently looking at the extreme because of overhead
    * We are looking at adding enough noise to hide the counts of a single user. Providing some threshold/DP claim here. Getting the overall size of a batch before interacting with the server is an important use-case. Other ideas without using report counts is doing something like a first pass query to see if the batch is above a threshold
* Brian
    * Support being able to gauge the size of a batch. I recommend not sending unconditionally.