# Attribution Reporting API

Nov 14, 2022 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer: Sid Sahoo

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc)



* Charlie H: New feature: Multiple destination support ([PR 601](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/601)) [not yet implemented]
* Charlie H: New explainer: [Trigger attestation](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/trigger_attestation.md)
* [Looking for feedback](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/labels/Looking%20for%20feedback) issues
* John D: Minor feature: OR filters (https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/615#issue-1444640358)


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Alex Cone (Coir)
2. Brian May (dstillery)
3. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
4. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
5. Sid Sahoo (Google Chrome)
6. Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)
7. Martin Pal (Google Chrome)
8. Akash Nadan (Google Chrome)
9. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
10. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
11. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)
12. Angelina Eng (IAB)


# Notes

**Support for multiple destinations **



* [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/601](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/601)
* Charlie: In response to issue #549, filed by Google Ads, which addressed the problem with a different situation. Where the landing page might mismatch the destination. Sometimes you might not know where the user eventually converts. Goal is merge all this.
    * Google Ads proposal had a more ergonomic way to list multiple destinations. We might be able to natively support the use-case without hacky workarounds. You can add multiple destinations, optionally. Current limit is 3. We’d scan all the pending sources for the multiple destinations use-case.
    * Only catch is: we can’t reveal which specific destination converted in event-level reports. The report will include all the destinations, and it would say that the user converted on one of them. Behavior of aggregatable reports will remain the same. This is mostly privacy neutral as we were considering the landing page problem. 
    * Angelina: Would we see the sources in aggregate reports? 
        * Charlie: In event-level you see a source ID linked to an impression. But now, it will just return all of the destination origins., and not specify which one. The Aggregatable report will have destination in clear text by default as is current behavior.
        * Angelina: Let’s say: gift card for 3 restaurants. So you’d see count by restaurant in aggregate, but not in event-level?
        * Charlie: Yes
        * Angelina: Would a click be a conversion?
        * Charlie: Currently consider headers from subresources on the page, but if this is a use-case, we can consider it.
        * Angelina: THe seller of gift card is a different company from that fulfilling the gift card. THe gift card company might not allow us to put pixels on their site, but we wanted to still track the clicks using a click-tracker to register clicks.
        * Charlie: Need to think through the technical specifics of the click-through tracking. E.g. if click directly leads you to the destination and you don’t control the server, you might need to some JS logic to add a tracker.
        * Alex: why would you need this API to count clicks?
        * Charlie: COnsidering click as a conversion because the gift card page/company is not controlled by the agency
    * Brian: What if you only had a single destination?
        * Charlie: THen this issue is a no-op for you.
    * Alex: I'm just thinking the click action is same site (as is the video completion, which should just be tracked by the ad server). Generally, I don't think of this API as a same site (app) reporting mechanism.
        * Alex: If it’s on the same site, why would you use this API?
        * Angelina: In some cases for optimization
        * Charlie: Advertiser site is not the same as where the ad was shown
        * Angelina: Video on the advertiser site might be embedded and not hosted on the advertiser site
        * Charlie: THis change is more helpful if you’re using a 3rd gift card site (such as a shopify) where this might be helpful.
        * Angelina: What about subdomains? E>g. wealth mngt site separate from banking domains. And business units don’t share data.
        * Charlie: We use TLD, and so we consider subdomains. You could also use filters to filter out the incorrect sites.
        * Alex: Click or video completing is not cross site
    * Angelina: E.g. P&G: HOw to differentiate brands that may be hosted on the same site? Is there a way to exclude attribution for specific brands?
        * Charlie: We can use attribution filters during registration time to specify these lines of businesses to match for.
        * Angelina: clarifying that just so the last touch doesn’t get the attribution which might have been for a different brand
        * John: ALso need to consider the priority of the sources. There is an open issue for this, would be helpful to understand the use-case.
        * CHarlie: Currently a gap.
        * Angelina: THere is some delineation between the lines of businesses, but there’s also cross-sell/up-sell. In the past, we’ve used a shared floodlight tag or a brand-specific one. GM vs Cadllac s Buick–are we seeing cross-overs to optimize experience for customers who might click on Buick, but convert on Cadillac.
        * Charlie: CHeck out this issue: [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/523](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/523)
            * Yahoo! Japan also mentioned a similar use-case

**Trigger Attestation**



* [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/trigger_attestation.md](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/trigger_attestation.md)
* Charlie: New explainer; makes the privacy of the API more robust. Overall goal is to prevent bad actors from sending you invalid aggregatable reports. SInce these are all encrypted, it makes the API dangerous. ALso makes it hard to filter invalid traffic. First proposal to tackle bad actors. Optional add-on.
    * Using blind signature primitive at the time of trigger registration. Can’t tie it back at reporting time. Allow adtechs to do some timestamp check to verify the trigger registration. Fairly basic signal, using a similar mechanism to trust token (renamed to private state token). Need to interact with the adtech server to create each aggregatable report.
    * Brian: where is a report identified as invalid?
        * Charlie: Browser sends trigger ping where you set the keys, etc. includes additional context around click/view. At this time, you’d also check the spam filter. WHen you send the aggregation keys, you’d also send a cryptographic response. THis is optional and you dont have to add it.
        * If included, we’ll verify this signature at the time of report generation. The unlinkability of the signature is important to preserve the privacy and still convey trust.
    * Brian: The browser is responsible for unblinding the signature?
        * Charlie: Yes, it is outside the encrypted payload. SO you can verify it before interacting with the aggregation service.
        * Charlie: The IVT filter is only looking at trigger side data. Similar systems today might be looking at joined data, but that’s not possible in the current state of the API.
        * Brian: Also why you’d want to obuscate the source in the reports?
        * Charlie: Yes! The more joined data is in the reports, the harder it is to ensure privacy in the API.
    * Charlie: This is the first step, explainer includes extensions and considerations for further hardening.

**OR Filters**



* [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/615#issue-1444640358](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/615#issue-1444640358))
* John: Minor change, simplifies the way filters are set up. Today filtering only supports an AND operation. If you had multiple cases for matching keys, you’d repeat the filters in event_trigger_data. Doesn’t change the type of operations, but makes it shorter.
* Brian: WOuld the first one be the winner if there were potential conflicts?
    * John: Yes, we consider the first matching filter
* Brian: What about backward compatibility to moving to this new way of including multiple filter criteria?
    * John: Not stopping folks from defining multiple filters. So, current operating logic will also continue.

**Looking for feedback label on GitHub issue**



* [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Looking+for+feedback%22](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Looking+for+feedback%22)
* Charlie: Not sure how the access control on labeling issues work, but feel free to ask us to add that label.
* Brian: Is there a way to get a summary of the latest issues, changes, feedback/comments on issues? There’s also an automated way to do this. The antifraud group is leveraging something like this
