# Attribution Reporting API

Oct 31, 2022 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer: Sid Sahoo

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc)



* Charlie Harrison: Destination support
    * [590](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/590): Removing landing page restriction
    * Further discussion
* Charlie Harrison / Brian May: [#439](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/439#issuecomment-1297153890) Hide the true number of aggregatable reports
* John Delaney: [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/586](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/586)


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
2. Sid Sahoo (Google Chrome)
3. Brian May (dstillery)
4. Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
5. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
6. Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)
7. Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
8. Nan Lin (Google Chrome)
9. Maud Nalpas (Google Chrome)
10. Alex Cone (Coir)
11. Christina Ilvento (Google)
12. Akash Nadan (Google)
13. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)


# Notes



* **[#590](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/590): Removing landing page restriction**
    * Charlie:
    * Problem here is about navigations/clickthru; constraint is that the domain where we convert has to match the landing page. E.g. convert on nike.com, but complete purchase on another domain. Attribution won’t work in this case.
    * In some cases, landing pages are maintained by a 3P that ultimately leads the user to the adv site. E.g. converting thru shopify
    * Both cases need substantial coordination among multiple parties; makes the API difficult to adopt. (Also related to #44) Privacy of the API also depended on the domains matching. When you’re measuring CTCs, you’re not learning something new about the users’s navigation.
    * Considering walking this back, as this isn’t load-bearing for privacy anymore with some of the recent changes related to noise. This also means that some portions of the times, there might be spurious reports. Already have this in place for VTCs.
    * Now, landing pages domains need not be conversion page domains. Also great because implementing this constraint was also fairly complicated.
    * Using JS redirects (using window.location) in the redirect chain for adding 3Ps is still a problem.
    * Sid: JS redirect supposed to be a problem?
        * Charlie: No plan to fix this because we want to keep the constraint that the user has to interact with the link. If this is a critical flow, we can try to think about solutions. We can consider an auto-downgrade to a view-thru registration.
    * Brian: Same thought about JS redirects--auto-downgrade to views.
        * Charlie: Will try to look at the size of the problem–whether we have to tackle this use-case. Also need to consider that JS based redirects are less performant, so want to add incentives in the API to encourage the right patterns.
        * Brian: Also problematic when the developer registers a click, but it’s actually registered as a view (for downgrades).
        * Charlie: Definitely reduces complexity for devs. No need to maintain views and clicks, and then merge the logs offline, etc.
    * Charlie: Doesn’t solve all use-cases, e.g. where the user can convert on multiple domains (parallel paths). Removing this landing page constraint is the first step towards solving the case for multiple domains.
    * Sid: multiple conversion domains: register multiple separate events?
        * Charlie: Possible for VTCs today, not CTCs. Requires multiple events, so it’ll eat thru event rate limit budgets. You can also end up with events that are harder to reconcile. It’ll be harder to dedupe as you’re merging after the fact. Ideally, would want to allow a single attribution source and prioritize the conversions. Google Ads also requested for this where they wanted to register a bunch of sources, but concentrated on VTCs.
        * Brian: If we’re doing multiple things to triangulate events in the API, it definitely complicates things in post-processing as well.
        * Charlie: Also need to consider the baseline rate for network failures. As we add more complexity to the critical path, and the redirect takes longer and longer, there may be knock-on effects on utility.
        * Brian: Success rate may also influence the actual utility. Not sure what you’re getting anymore. Redirects are fragile, need to be careful.
        * Charlie: Redirects allow us to naturally insert our API in the ecosystem, but it definitely has its demerits.
* **[#439](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/439#issuecomment-1297153890): Hide the true number of aggregatable reports**
    * When attribution triggers, we look for pending sources. If none, then we ignore the trigger. If we find eligible pending sources, we go thru the trigger algo and create an aggreggatable report.
    * All the juicy data is encrypted, but we still reveal some cross-site info. What does the presence of an aggregatable report reveal—no. of attributable conversions for an advertiser within an hour window.
    * This is the information that isn’t noised. As our north star, we want to support differential privacy. When we have an aggregate without any noise, it doesn’t fall in line with our goals.
    * We could send null reports on triggers with no sources that have no contribution to the histogram. What happens on conversion domains is already known.
    * Option 1: We could make the count of aggregatable reports a non-privacy report.
    * Option 2: Spectrum of: sometimes we send a null report, sometimes we don’t. This could be in line with differential-privacy-like claim by adding plausible deniability.
    * Don’t have a concrete plan about the options we’re going to take. Note that the null reports don’t impact the output of the aggregation service at all. Some amount of additional reports might add to the job execution time. Depends on the volume of attributable conversions.
    * Brian: Not clear about how count may reveal identities.
        * Charlie: 2 answers. (1) Value of using differential privacy is just simplifying API design, and know that users are protected even if we don’t identify the exact attack. (2) Can come up with a random attack: considering large retail—spear fish. Partner with sensitive.com to only register ad views for the targeted individual. If the large retail company ever receives a report, then the individual was identified. The partnership could rotate across targeted individuals across different days.
        * Brian: Make sense with the scenario above. What about source site in aggregatable reports.
        * Charlie: We did have source site in plain text. You could then learn about source site and advertiser combination without noise. We wanted the pub as part of the privacy budget key. Didn’t understand all the implications. Realized that this was a privacy hole because it allows you to learn pub/adv breakdown without using aggregation service. Also, null reports will be impossible with both source and destination sites in plain text. We propose null reports for triggers with no source, so the browser will need to come up with a fake source. Aware of the need for source site, and can keep iterating on solutions on the other issue ([#583](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/583)). It should be the job of the aggregation service to provide these breakdowns by pub.
        * Brian: Is it possible to include the source site in the encrypted payload.
        * Charlie: Yes, only can be read in TEEs. Could consider embedding as part of the aggregation keys. Need to discuss to find the best solution. Understand that there are ergonomic issues–need to send in all the keys as part of the query, and there isnt a good way to discover issues. This use-case is supported partially today, if you can enumerate all the domains.
        * Brian: Having to know ahead of time where the ads are going to show is challenging for open web reporting. Would be great to find a good solution.
        * Charlie: Next step should be to iterate on the issue ([#583](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/583)). Without the source site included, more solutions are unlocked.
