# Attribution Reporting API

Jan 10, 2022 @ 8-9am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda

Add agenda topics here!



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Introductions
* Scribe volunteer: John Delaney
* Erik Taubeneck: FYI: Meta & Mozilla [shared IPA on the PATCG proposals repo.](https://github.com/patcg/proposals/issues/2) It has similar goals to the Aggregate Reporting API, and want to make sure folks here are aware of it. 
* Aloïs Bissuel: priorities and reporting window in the event-level API for clicks ([issue 278](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/278))
* Charlie Harrison: Adding noise values to API output
    * [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/274](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/274)
* Charlie Harrison: bikeshedding on naming
    * [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/281](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/281)
    * [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/268](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/268)
    * Deduplication key / idempotency key
    * Local / remote deduplication
* In progress work: updates to explainer to prepare for next rev of Origin Trial.


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 



1. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
2. Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
3. Angelina Eng (IAB & IAB Tech Lab)
4. Erik Anderson (Microsoft Edge)
5. Brian May (dstillery)
6. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
7. Manny Isu (Google Chrome)
8. Erik Taubeneck (Meta)
9. Joel Pfeiffer (MSFT)
10. Aditya Desai (Google)
11. Christina Ilvento (Google Chrome)
12. Maud Nalpas (Google Chrome)
13. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
14. Przemyslaw Iwanczak (RTB House)


# Notes

## Aloïs Bissuel: priorities and reporting window in the event-level API for clicks ([issue 278](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/278))



* Aloïs: If you want to trick two kinds of clicks, sales/clicks. There is an intermediary reporting window that messes up the system. If a user makes three low value events in the first 2 days, this consumes the entire budget. This intermediary window doesn’t provide a lot of utility here.
* Charlie:The priority system allow you to prioritize conversions within one intermediate windows. These windows all reports to be sent sooner, rather than waiting for the full expiry (30 days). But this explicitly doesn’t allowing prioritizing across windows.
    * In a situation where low priority conversions happen in an early window, there won’t be any room for reporting if a purchase comes in later.
    * Are there any examples of low priority conversions?
* Aloïs: Want to track if a user interacts with a website. Then some days later they make a purchase. User interacts with site, sees products, then later decides to buy.
* Angelina Eng: Another example is buying a car, where purchase cycle is 30-60 days. Another is users comparing different products. And high-end purchases such as furniture/expensive items.
* Charlie: The concern is they are not just intermediate events. Tracking too many low priority events will cause data loss.
* Angelina: Some of these low priority events indicate purchase intent, signing up for a newsletter/following stories.
* Aloïs: Another option is to bound the number of contributions that an event type could make.
* John Delaney: Possible today with the deduplication key. It allows you to dedupe across multiple triggers for a source. You could set “low priority conversion” dedupe key. Could cap at 1. Would this help?
* Aloïs: Didn’t think of this solution, might fit the model.
* Charlie: Dedup-key is not exactly designed for this, but it is a coarse grained way of capping these things to one. Does not allow anything finer-grained like give ⅔ of one conversion type. 
* Charlie: The other thing mentioned in the issue is getting rid of the intermediate windows completely. Would like to understand if these tradeoffs are acceptable. Without these, you need to wait for the impression to expire. This conflicts with other goals like trying to get reports as fast as possible. Does this seem worth exploring?
* Alois: For some of these clients it does make sense, but it may not make sense in all cases. We would like the flexibility to not use on some customers.
* Angelia: In A/B split testing, being able to see what the path looks like and seeing one ad vs another. Intermediary reports can measure user engagement.
* Charlie: Makes sense, one solution is get rid of the intermediary windows. Where you would still receive these reports, you would just receive them later. At expiry you could get “add to cart, purchase, etc”. There is a tradeoff between prioritizing across windows and receiving reports faster in all the solutions we have been exploring.
* Angelina: If a conversion doesn’t happen, a delay should be fine. Perhaps setting some limits on the number of conversions, and determining what is nice to know vs what is necessary to measure.
* Charlie: Right now the API is trying to focus on these P0 events, down-funnel purchases. And there is a clash where the less important events are drowning out this signal.
* What about the other proposal mentioned on the issue?
* Aloïs: The deduplication key approach should be equivalent to this.
* Charlie: Possibly adding an option to remove windows + dedup key may get us most of the way there. Will follow up on the issue.
* 

## Erik Taubeneck: FYI: Meta & Mozilla [shared IPA on the PATCG proposals repo.](https://github.com/patcg/proposals/issues/2)



* Erik: Submitted a proposal which solves the same general problem as the aggregate API. But it moves the matching step off the users device and onto an MPC system.
* There is also a deck that contains some pictures: 
* Charlie: My understanding is there is an id that is like a user id, that is consistent across apps/browsers and potentially mediated by some identity provider. An event will be generated for every impression/conversion, and measurement will work more similar to cookies where a join happens between all these events to find attributed conversions.
* Erik: Yes, but this all happens in MPC so everything is done with encryption/opaque to reporting origins. Any party may use an identity, so there is no identity provider as a service in this model.
* Charlie: So this is a type of shared device graph?
* Erik: Yes.
* Presentation
* Erik: The core principle of IPA is the match key. A write only identifier (Which prevents it being used as a tracking vector). Similar to the aggregate API here, which doesn’t let impressions be read by a page.
* Match key can only be used within an MPC enviorment. MPC nodes can only perform operations approved by the user agent clients. There will be different matching providers which change how events can be matched.
* Can apply a blinding factor to the match key, which gets us to a place where the match key is double blinded, and neither MPC server can determine what the match key was. But these match keys are linkable (unique to the run, unlinkable to the real user’s match key).
* Alex Cone: Based on some of the use-cases discussed earlier, thinking about how these use-cases would work in the IPA proposal such as these intermediary reports.
* Erik: I don’t think we have this level of detail currently. But because the privacy is managed at the match key level, you should be able to do anything as long as it is within your privacy budget. You may be able to do it in a way where you use less budget on lower value events versus purchase events. As for actual expiry of events, there has to be something, but needs to be fleshed out more.
* Charlie: The existing design of the system is hyper-optimized to make the server as simple as proposal. IPA is more-so the opposite, can the client be super simple and the server be as complicated/powerful as possible. There will definitely be tradeoffs there.
* Brian May: Similar to Charlie this seems to make the client very simple and move all the lifting to servers. Raises the question of who is going to run these servers, and who will guarantee they are playing fai?
* Erik: It is a question for both of these proposals. Can we build a robust marketplace where competition arises in the MPC system. Whatever site is calling the API, it is only at the aggregation step do you rely on the aggregation servers. There is an open issue on whether events can go directly to the helper node rather than to the calling site/reporter.
* Aditya Desai: Trying to understand the edge cases where matches may not happen, on a different device for example.
* Erik: Matches happen when a user logs in to a match provider on multiple devices/apps. Exploring having multiple of these, where any one can match. E.g. in the deck we used Facebook/Google/Twitter as examples.
* Imagine you have an internet connected device like a TV, there could be lots of instances where you haven’t logged in via a connected id. But maybe there are other match providers there. Hopefully we can get to a place where there is a robust enough graph. It should be at least as good as any individual matching graph.
* Alex Cone: Match keys on a single device aren’t as broad as the user agent providing the id. In this case, it is incumbent on match key provider to set the id. The total scope of the pie is less than if the device is setting it. The tradeoff is for cross-device, where device ids won’t be able to work.
* Erik: it’s possible you could always default to or include a same-device id, so in the worst case you will be guaranteed same-device matching.
* Alex: Interesting, there would be no net-new information assuming it is blinded.
* Angelina: Where is the user logging into, the browser or a publisher site?
* Erik: Any site, so a publisher site. 
* Angelina: Does the user need to log into every site?
* Erik: No, that is what we are trying to avoid. If I am on a small site, I can declare my providers and use those graphs. The user would have needed to log into one of those matchers on that user agent at some point.
* Brian: Is there anyway to provide these larger entity ids without allowing them to capture more information about users?
* Erik: Because they are only setting a write-only value they aren’t routing any information.
* Brian: Is there anything in the write that prevents the forging of these values?
* Erik: We don’t have the same concern on these events being forged, as you get the reports/events back immediately on a page where you already have this context.
* Brian: Is the idea just the publisher provides the information? Take the info from the client, stamp it into a record?
* Erik: From a publisher point of view you are issuing these events, and collecting encrypted reports. The conversion side would send these encrypted conversion side reports back to you, and you would then aggregate on this data.
* The advertiser would also collect all the reports on their side. Two query modes: one publisher lots of advertisers, and also one advertiser many publishers.
* Brian: Will the browser/client send any telemetry back to these servers?
* Erik: Haven’t thought of that, as it may require servers to be always online. Have not thought a ton about how these reports get sent around: a publisher could forwarded reports server to server to advertisers, or potentially when a publisher registers an impression for advertiser.example the client could also send a duplicate event directly. Not yet decided.
* These events are really easy to forge, but the user agent has this match key which is hard to discover. 
* Charlie: Authentication of reports/fraud. Need to be careful about who is allowed to set the match key. There could be a malicious identity provider who sets the same match key. But in this proposal you have the option of choosing these providers. No automatic trust. Some prior cross-device proposals had this short-coming where you are trusting identity providers more than you want to.
* Charlie: We have other proposals in this rep for crossde-vice which is different where the graph is browser provided. This solution automagically supports app2web + crossdevice without doing anything fancy on the clients.
* Martin Pai: Thanks for sharing this proposal. What are your thoughts on who will be keeping track of the privacy budget? Is it one entity or a marketplace?
* Erik: In the proposal each node tracks the budget at the match key level. If one side removes the report it is removed from both sides.
* Martin: if I am an adtech do I have the ability can I use the events in multiple MPC computations that are not aware of each other?
* Erik: Yes, right now it is similar to the strawman in this repo where it is some epsilon over 7 days. Each node would store their own state of the privacy budget for each of those keys.
* Charlie: If interested in this discussion, follow along on PATCG.

## Charlie Harrison: bikeshedding on naming



    * [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/281](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/281)
    * [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/268](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/pull/268)
    * Deduplication key / idempotency key
    * Local / remote deduplication
* We thought it would be useful if reports disclosed the probabilities for randomization in the report itself. Especially useful if these become cross browser proposals.
* Feedback on naming, we talked earlier on deduping. Currently have a PR to rename from dedup-key to deduplication-key.
* There is also another id called report-id, which doesn’t do anything on the client, but it used to prevent double counting on the server. Considering renaming to idempotency key.
* Dedup-key and idempotency key seem to be the exact same thing.
* Brian: Client-dedup and server-dedup?
* Charlie: Yeah that is also possible. Followup on issues with any idea/preferences.
* Angelina: client/server +1