# Attribution Reporting API

Jan 23, 2023 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer:

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc)



* [Charlie] Permission Policy after the OT [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/558](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/558)
    * Allow-recursive change proposal
    * Giving top-level headers more control (avoid needing both server-side and rendering changes to delegate permissions)


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
2. Brian May (dstillery)
3. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
4. Ian Clelland (Google Chrome)
5. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
6. Sid Sahoo (Google Chrome)
7. Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)
8. Risako Hamano (Yahoo Japan)
9. Jon Guarino (Campaign Manager)
10. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
11. Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
12. Akash Nadan (Google Chrome)
13. Lorenzo Hernandez (NextRoll)
14. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
15. Maybelline Boon (Google Chrome)
16. Alex Cone (Coir)


# Notes



1. Github issue 558
    1. Charlie: API had default policy of self originally. Required explicit delegation from the top level iframe, and lower iframes had to delegate as well. Lots of complicated nested iframe setups that made it difficult for testing. Temporarily changed to default on for everyone during OT. Currently thinking through what to set as the default value post OT (GA). Can we do something better than we are currently doing during the OT? Are there mechanism we could add to permission policy that is somewhere in between default of “*” vs. default of self?
    2. Brian M: is it possible to have a chain where some intermediaries need to be excluded?
    3. Charlie: Deferring to ads ecosystem partners to understand these types of use cases to understand if we need them.
    4. Brian M: we may want to go with something that requires/allows specifying access for specific origins
    5. Charlie: outline of proposal. Add a secondary attribute to iframes that allows a feature in a recursive way. If an embedder sets a permission policy on an iframe it will recursively set the permission policy for all nested iframes?
    6. Jon G: Related to allowing particular origins. In a lot of cases where we are measuring impressions from isn’t from our domain (example 3rd party click tracker)
    7. Charlie: Hope is that any context that needs to use the UI needs to be trusted and can make the changes. 
    8. Ian C: What is the likelihood of knowing the origins that will be using the API? OTher option is to allow a default of “*”?
    9. Charlie: we wanted the top level to explicitly opt in
    10. Ian C: even if the top level doesn’t know the final origins, would it know enough about the lower origins to delegate to other origins to decide?
    11. Charlie: if we did this, we would need to allow origins to add other origins to the list. There are cases where the SSP doesn’t know the final DSP
    12. Ian C: is it possible that this is a short term problem only? Maybe these changes are not needed?
    13. Brian M: What is the visibility to the publisher of everyone’s permissions that are being set? More concerned about people turning off permissions down the chain rather than adding additional people
    14. Charlie: Not much visibility for the publisher. Adding visibility about what is happening down chain could have security implications
    15. Brian M: There are cases where ad-tech’s intercede with iframes to hide what is happening in lower level iframes
    16. Charlie: How big of a problem might this be? 
    17. Brian M: More concerned about someone turning something off in the iframe chain
    18. Ian C: We may need to make the opt out more affirmative with this proposal. We need to make it difficult to accidentally opt out
    19. Charlie: Default * requires a more affirmative opt out
    20. Christina: Question about Brian’s case. Is there additional debugging support needed or will this not be investigated when there are api fails lower in the chain potentially?
    21. Brian M: Based on legacy experience with ad tech things can get pretty chaotic. Being able to see what is going wrong in this scenario is important as it may be difficult to identify sources of problems and may take a while to notice if you’re not looking for them. Even a short period of time could have a significant and costly impact. Making it deterministic is still difficult, because not everyone knows who is lower in the iframe chain.
    22. Christina: Can transient failure be really expensive vs not knowing who is further down the change. Any insight into the relative risk of both?
    23. Brian M: Not a risk that goes away as things are constantly changing. Having visibility into what permissions are being set throughout the chain would be the ideal scenario.
    24. Charlie: Are there any positive use cases for when someone would want to turn off reporting for a given iframe subtree? Is any permission policy better than having no permission policy with opt outs?
    25. Jon G: Not a lot of specific requests to lock out this type of data. Not sure if the right decision is to turn it off entirely. It is still nice to be able to disable it. 
    26. Charlie: feedback from publishers that they want to be able to say no on permissions. Do people serving/rendering ads what the ability? Hard to say since they currently use cookies
    27. Brian M: I’m always considering: “Are people going to bother to adopt this?” If the API is over restricted then people may not even consider adoption. Start with something relatively open and allow participants to add restrictions based on experience. Will still require some understanding and monitoring of what is happening down the chain
    28. Charlie: There are costs/benefits to the OT stance that we currently have of “*”. Are the concerns amplified if we go with the recursive proposal or is it tolerable?
    29. Brian M: Lots of loose relationships in ad tech. May not have a clear understanding of what they do or what someone 3 levels removed does. Important to keep in mind to understand the impact of this
    30. Charlie: We moved to default * for this reason. Easy way to do adoption. What is the long term path and how long will it take us to get there? Trying to understand arguments for the end state where adoption has happened. We are going to do this responsibly and minimize any damage
    31. Jon G: Allow recursive vs *. Scenario where you get an error message that something wasn’t allowed because of permissions. There is a difference in the two scenarios if someone does something regarding opting out
    32. Brian M: Are there any other contexts or use-cases using iframe chains where permission policy is set at the top level and then altered by the lower levels?
    33. Ian C: not sure if we have metrics on this. Most permissions are default self. Hard to tell if lower levels opt out on purpose or accidentally by not delegating
    34. Alex C: ad tech supply chain permission schemes (like ads.txt) are effectively meaningless now. If the API takes off, it seems like everyone will say allow for the permission
    35. Charlie: Assumption was that everyone would say allow except privacy centric publishers. This allows for them to opt out. If we think opting out on the publisher end is enough then we could keep default as *. Would require some convincing that this is enough. 
    36. Brian M: There will be market forces that push everyone to allow. 
    37. Charlie: If we simplified the proposal to just the publisher being allowed to flip the bit between default * and default self
    38. Ian C: Not all iframes are ad iframes. Need to understand what is the worst case for non ad iframes
    39. Charlie: The security decision should not just lie with the top level iframe
    40. Alois B: The OT is very tied to the iframe. Every participant needed to set the permission and be part of the OT. If it wasn’t as tied to the OT token, we may have been able to get enough data. The original setting may have worked with the OT token
    41. Charlie: Our current guidance is to do this delegation. We need to think through how we do these types of migrations. 
    42. Brian M: Is there any way for us to do a mock trial to see if people can report back if they are getting the necessary permissions
    43. Ian C: Working on shipping something that will give more insight into this
    44. Brian M: If this is difficult to adopt, people will ask to allow everywhere
    45. Charlie: The API is not just for ad tech. We want the ability for publishers to turn off the api if they don’t embedded any ad tech
    46. Brian M: Potentially allow a publisher to define chains where it is turned off vs ad tech chains that can’t be turned off
    47. Alex C: Agree with Charlie. But might be less meaningful in the ads case because they will not want to turn it off
    48. Charlie: We need to think through some non-ads use cases and see if it impacts the ads use cases
    49. Brian M: Are there other APIs in the sandbox that have a similar permission-policy issues?
    50. Charlie: Topics is a similar one. They will weigh in as well. We may want to merge this conversation with them
    51. Brian M: May need to be considered for FLEDGE as well
    52. Charlie: Potentially needed for FLEDGE. AI: potentially merge conversations across other impacted APIs
