# Attribution Reporting API

Aug 21, 2023 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer: Renan Feldman

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc:



* [Isaac Foster] multi-touch
* [Isaac Foster] CPA Billing [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/717](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/717)


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Brian May (dstillery)
2. Sergey Federenko (MSFT Ads)
3. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
4. Aleksei Danilov (Criteo)
5. Isaac Foster (MSFT Ads)
6. Renan Feldman (Privacy Sandbox)
7. Risako Hamano (Yahoo Japan) 
8. Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)
9. Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
10. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
11. Akash Nadan (Chrome)
12. Dennis Yurkevich (MiQ/AirGrid)
13. Asha Menon (Privacy Sandbox)
14. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)
15. Yanush Piskevich (MSFT Ads)


# Notes

Topic: [Isaac Foster] CPA Billing [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/717](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/717)



* Charlie: clarifying the issue. Understand that the primary issue is delay to get a complete view of the relevant time period.
* Isaac: should start with whether we can reliably get reliable results to CPA **by EOM**. Then we discuss other topics.
* Christina: What’s EOM? Calendar month? 30day period?
* Issac: end of calendar month. Need to get something out by 8-10hrs after the end.
* Christina: There are usually ad events that don’t convert within the month. Is the request for ad events, or conversions?
* Isaac: the billing event is billed within the period it occurs. E.g impression last minute of last day of the month. Then X days window of conversion. Don’t retroactively update the August bill. 
* Charlie: would it be billing in the next month?
* David: that depends on the lookback?
* Isaac: lookback defines how far back we look for an impression. Bill based on the day of the event. 
* Brian: gets harder to argue about something that happened the longer time from the event (e.g. conversion end of Aug, bill end of Sep. reconciliation in Oct). Any delay is problematic in that data is potentially lost, but the smaller the delay the easier it is to work with. 
* Christina: If we could give exact billable conversion counts, would this require all the other relevant reporting information?
    * Is this a billing specific issue? E.g. remove some data to get an early count? 
    * Or do you need more holistic data?
* Brian: getting a report for billing is acceptable, and later the rest of the data.  Need the follow-up evidence, but can be later.
* Charlie: Providing overview of the issue
    * Looking at multiple issues to reduce delay, especially for aggregate-level. Reduced this by ~10x (10min-1hr -> 0-10min). 
    * On average, report is sent within 5min. If users go offline / close browser, this will not always be honored. 
    * Should reduce the longer delays reported in issue #717. Haven’t seen an updated analysis after the changes.
    * Open to discussing how we can reduce the delay further, e.g. to instant -- would be a “performance overhead”. If we unconditionally send a report for each trigger, the contents are hidden (i.e may be a null report), theoretically we could send this immediately. The delay is masking whether a trigger led to a conversion. 
    * There is likely an order (or two) magnitude more unattributed triggers.
    * On Agg service, only 1% of 10% of reports would not be null → increasing storage and processing costs.
* Isaac:
    * The special issue here is delay and eventual consistency. eventual consistency (i.e. never record a conversion) isn’t great for billing. Aggregated data is not great for billing.
    * The unique element, compared with CPM, CPV is “eventual consistency”. If there was a guaranteed event within 1hr, this would solve the problem. Then we can discuss aggregate. 
    * Understood the issue to be a privacy issue - if you get an immediate conversion event, you can re-identify cross-domain. 
    * What if you remove the domain of the conversion event, and send this later? Could this address the privacy concern?
    * will follow-up on null report
* David
    * State of play for event-level (legacy, EOD attribution mechanism) -- you can use debug reports, but this ends with third-party cookie deprecation. 
    * Is there a way to continue traceability after third-party cookie deprecation?
* Charlie
    * Didn't publish a design on this. Have discussed in this group extending debugging functionality in aggregate. 
* David
    * Maybe we publish some privacy principles and approach and provide this to the business group, to explain the implications of this.
    * #717 -- does it have reference to the PRs that address the delay?
        * Akash: yesh
* Brian
    * Is it acceptable to get a report for every conversion? 
        * Yes
    * Given the scale of conversions which is very small and that there are many times more pings from impressions, reporting every conversion would not be a problem – in fact we’re already getting pings on every conversion and this would increase it by less than 2x, likely significantly less. 
* Isaac
    * A lot more pings from impressions than conversions.
* Charlie
    * We can look into this, given the feedback from the group.
    * I have no privacy concerns on this approach.
    * See proposal at [attribution-reporting-api/report_verification.md at main](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/report_verification.md#could-we-just-tag-reports-with-a-trigger_id-instead-of-using-anonymous-tokens)
    * Similar to [private-aggregation-api/report_verification.md at main](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/private-aggregation-api/blob/main/report_verification.md)
* Brian:
    * Prefer to avoid issues that lead to loss of information (i.e. any delay) as these are our most valuable signals and it creates uncertainty, making it hard to reason about how things are working.
* Christina
    * Like the suggestion of taking this to the business group.
    * Two concerns of billing: 1) potential loss (delay, clearing data, etc); 2) noise
    * Noise is likely lower magnitude. 
    * Loss seems OK from a trust perspective -- maybe can be managed, because you are not overcharging (ack that under-charging is also an issue)
    * Noise may be harder for trust. Would like feedback on this
* Brian
    * Loss is a problem, conversions we report are our most valuable evidence for having performed and what we are evaluated on.
    * Loss of conversion attribution due to Impressions being cleared when cookies are deleted is a fact of ad tech which we’re all reconciled to.
* Isaac
    * Seems to align on sending something immediately for billing events. 
    * Underbilling is especially not great when the ad is purchased on CPM, but paid on CPA [scribe comment - may not be accurate]
    * Good first step is [scribe - not sure]. Unclear if aggregates are sufficient .
    * Noise -- interesting question. 
    * Unclear: will we be compliant if we don’t have a record that shows the billing (GCR).
* Brian:
    * Immediate report at conversion for every conversion. Sometimes a real report. Sometimes a null report.
* Charlie
    * With any delay, there is risk of noise. More delay, more risk.
    * If the browser can provide the data immediately, so you don’t lose it. 
    * We can separately discuss other impacts.
* Brian:
    * Conversion reports are not just for billing, they are also the basis for acquiring new campaigns. Our fundamental requirement is to show we contributed value.
* Charlie:
    * AI to write an issue on changing the API to accommodate even more delays
* Akash
    * Given that we have reduced delay, another useful AI would be re-evaluating the impact of delay
    * On pre-stable channels, we are testing 0-5min; would be good to evaluate those
* Charlie 
    * +1 
* Brian
    * Reducing uncertainty of information is better for anyone.
    * Consider removing delays whenever possible.

**Topic: [Isaac Foster] multi-touch**



* Isaac
    * Conversion occurred. Who is “responsible” for it?
    * Xandr: mostly last-touch. 
    * What is currently supported?
* Charlie
    * API supports a bit more flexibility than last-touch.
    * Priority-based model for ranking impressions. Pick the impression with the highest priority. 
    * With this setup, I can't have multiple impressions. But can do “first touch”, probabilistic touch. 
    * Have a single impression &lt;> single conversion.
* Isaac
    * Can do negative/positive time-based for first or last touch
* Charlie
    * Privacy challenges with partial credit. Increases the state space.
    * Could explore partial credit for aggregate. 
    * If you had javascript access, you can run worklets, and do computations to generate aggregate key. Discarded for complexity, can’t support event-level, limited JS on conversion sites. 
* Issac
    * If we get event-level immediately, this may complicate multi-touch [scribe -- not clear]
* Charlie
    * If we had event-level immediately (for previous conversion), the privacy consideration would be large.
    * Aggregate is more feasible. 
* Isaac
    * To confirm, is the challenge privacy?
* Charlie
    * Can offer privacy guarantees in aggregate. 
* Isaac:
    * If the concern is coverage; because the advertisers will have incentive 
* Brian
    * Suggest to postpone worklet until we have something that’s not dependent on JavaScript
    * This would be a very large increase in complexity for advertisers as they would not just have to update sites, but would also have to verify and monitor scripts to assure they weren’t problematic.
    * 
* Charlie
    * Adoption -- it’s not just a re-tagging effort. We heard opposition from some advertisers (e.g. bank, high security) for any JavaScript. Will need to have both paths.
* Isaac’s comment over chat: are the types of advertisers who don't want to put JS on their site typically relying on CPA or conversions in ad tech in general?
* Brian
    * Is it a single impression to a conversion? Or single impression domain to conversion?
* Charlie
    * Matching algorithm -- currently can only pick one impression. In the future, we could have an algorithm to distribute the budget between impressions. 
* Brian:
    * Are you trying to limit cross-context information or are you trying to limit per-event information?
* Charlie
    * Haven’t tackled this question in the MTA context.
    * Currently, each impression gets an independent budget. But that means you can’t abuse/use multiple impression budgets 
    * Can only use contribution from the highest priority impression
    * Haven’t considered how to change privacy budgets to account for this.
* Isaac
    * Multi impression per site OR multiple impression anywhere
    * Impression: sitet1, then sitet2, then convert on advertiser 
    * With last-touch configuration, would I get one report for site2?
        * Charlie: yes
* Brian:
    * If you had multiple impressions for NYTimes, I would like to indicate multiple impressions in the conversion.
* Charlie	
    * MTA could allow that
* David
    * If you don’t set priority, the algorithm would just pick the last one.
* Isaac
    * If all had the same priority, would you pick?
* Charlie
    * I think it's the latest. 
* Isaac
    * No logic to choose one. You control by setting priorities. 
* David
    * As a reporting origin, once an impression wins, all the other ones will be removed?
* Charlie: Yes. We currently only leak information about one event.
* Isaac
    * charlie i'm just gonna put this here to not derail, but on the conversion reporting event vs agg level, is ANY event level report unacceptable or just one that would allow reidentification across domain immediately, so including the domain of conversion?
* Charlie
    * Current stance of the API -- protect any cross-site information. 
    * We protect the same within aggregate and event-level. 
    * Event-level protection is through random bit flipping, and limited data.
    * Event-level has an impression-side unique ID, and everything else is cross-site data.
* Isaac
    * You could register multiple domains at the source side, and thus the reason for my question.
    * Will discuss again after we see Charlie’s proposal
* David to Akash: For testing 0-5min windows, is this fully under experimental control? Or default behavior?
* Akash:
    * One of the experiments that’s running. 
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/730](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/730)
