# Attribution Reporting API

Mon Oct 16, 2023 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer: Isaac & Renan

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc:



* Plugging: There is a PAM one-off meeting Oct 19. [Link](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/private-ad-measurement/issues/6)
* Isaac: if nothing else is on the agenda it might be helpful for me to get to talk through [974](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/974) a bit.
* Charlie: PAM / ARA possible interop mode (also related to 974). May require other changes
* Charlie: Feedback on [1067](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/1067) from an anti-spam POV


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
2. Renan Feldman (Google Chrome)
3. Isaac Foster (Microsoft (Ads))
4. Aram Zucker-Scharff (The Washington Post)
5. Ruchi Lohani (Google Chrome)
6. Nan Lin (Google Chrome)
7. Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)
8. Matt Digan (NY Times)
9. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
10. Yuyan Lei (The Washington Post)
11. Risako Hamano (Yahoo Japan) 
12. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)


# Notes



* [Charlie] Plugging: There is a PAM one-off meeting Oct 19. [Link](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/private-ad-measurement/issues/6)
    * Charlie planning to file issues to look for alignment between proposal
    * Planning to continue discussing proposals at PATCG


### Topic: discuss [974](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/974)



* [Issac] Discuss noising scheme specifically in 974
* [Charlie]
    * Proposal is designed to not interfere with noise in summary reports
    * Aggregation Service aims to aggregate together, adding noise to each bucket, return a summary report
    * 974 only adds “noise” by creating null contribution; doesn’t have impact on Aggregation Service.
    * No downstream impact on the final output/summary report
    * Ad tech would get more aggregatable reports, which has performance impact. More storage, network bandwidth and processing time required. 
    * Utility vs. performance tradeoff; not an accuracy tradeoff
* [Isaac] What’s the value of noise to increased privacy?
* [Charlie]
    * Basic privacy mechanism: X time after a trigger, Chrome will send a report if there was attribution. If there was no attribution, Chrome won’t sent a report.
    * Therefore, the existence of a report, indicates an attribution, which is some cross-site data.
    * Want to break this relationship.
    * Currently, use delay to break the relationship. Small fraction, we’ll send a null report, even without an attribution. 
    * Without delay (reduce to 0), it would fully associate the report with the trigger/attribution.
    * Not comfortable fully removing delay without any other changes.
    * Proposal: always send a null report, fully mitigates the privacy risk of removing the delay.
* [Issac]
    * Impression occur -- register source with some eventID
    * Conversion occurs -- register trigger with triggerEventID
    * Will there be noise with the trigger?
* [Charlie]
    * triggerEventID will cause an immediate report. 
    * If there was a matching impression (successful attribution), it would be the same report as today without delay, with the trigger event id. All the source data is still encrypted in the report. triggerEventID has some utility.
* [Isaac] What’s the limit on triggerEventID?
* [Charlie] No privacy limitations. Maybe 64 bits. Similar to the event-level API. The cross-site data is protected. With event-level, local noise is the protection. With aggregate-level, the data is encrypted and noise added centrally.
* [Isaac]
    * Could I put the auction-site ID?
* [Charlie]
    * Only information you would know at the conversion data.
* [Issac]
    * Not information that is from the render side.
* [Charlie]
    * This can be used, for example, for filtering conversions from an ad spam POV.
* [Isaac]
    * Can add as much as information as possible on the advertiser side
* [Charlie]
    * Trying to remove all the information about the source, except for processing in aggregate. 
    * Reducing the delay to 0 is equivalent to adding an ID.
* [Isaac]
    * Will add noise to the trigger, that will not affect the aggregation.
* [Charlie]
    * Shouldn’t even call this “noise”. It’s just reports with 0 values, which don’t do anything.
    * They are encrypted, so you can’t distinguish them from other reports. 
* [Renan]
    * Reminder that this was introduced to support 0 delay for billing purposes.
* [Isaac]
    * Need to think about whether it’s usable without linking to the source
* [Aram]
    * Empty reports for users that don’t see the initial events. 
    * This seems expensive; unclear if it’s better than delayed reports.
* [Charlie]
    * Exactly the feedback that we are looking for.
    * There’s a tradeoff between utility AND performance/cost. Would any ad techs be interested in taking the additional cost to get the value.
* [Isaac]
    * Unclear if useful without linking back to impression.
    * If the payment is tied to a post-click/view event, you need to be able to demonstrate the “chain of events”. Need to understand the state of budget at the relevant time.
    * If we had a campaign ID, that might be enough.
        * [Charlie] some of it might be possible using the aggregate API.
    * How to answer 
    * Also Unsure about “raw calculation”
* [Charlie]
    * From the event-level POV, if we sent a report immediately with triggerEventId and can be linked, this would be similar to a cookie. We are try to avoid the timestamp leakage. 
* [Isaac]
    * Can we try to make processing better?
    * Would still be useful to make the processing more real-time reporting.
* [Charlie]
    * Maybe possible if we can bypass the ad tech.
    * Some exploration in the spec about proxying between client and ad tech. 
* [Aram]
    * On the publisher, it is hard to see lots of interest in more utility with 974, given the  higher cost.
* [Charlie]
    * We don’t have information about the increase in costs, because it depends on private data from the ecosystem. 
    * The approach at 974 is similar to Apple's proposal PAM. If 974 is an issue for ARA, it will help to give this feedback to PAM as well.
* [Aram]
    * The costs are relatively fixed, but the revenue from a click/ad changes by ad tech.
    * Would be good to get perspective on the revenue vs. cost of the report.
* [Charlie]
    * Some discussion on this at TPAC. Not commitments. 
* [Isaac]
    * Hope to get more time to fetch this data
* [Isaac+Aram+Charlie]
    * Next PATCG is Oct 24 and 26 (9am-12pm ST); can aim to have some discussion on costs there.


### Topic: PAM / ARA possible interop mode (also related to 974). May require other changes



* [Charlie]
    * (discussion above)
    * Differences between proposals are relatively small. 
    * 974 seems to be one of the larger differences. 


### Topic: Feedback on [1067](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/1067) from an anti-spam POV



* [Charlie]
    * Feature for Anti-spam, invalid traffic detection.
    * Request to be able to taint conversions based on clicks for the aggregate API. For event-level, you have the eventID, so the solution already exists.
    * New capability (example): attach source event ID to the aggregate report (this would be encrypted). When processing, can provide a list of IDs to exclude.
    * If you determine that a click/view was bad, can avoid processing data in aggregate. 


### New Topic: Event-level in 2026+



* [Isaac]
    * There is a goal of deprecating event-level reporting in 2026. Where is the discussion happening on how to solve this? How to be involved?
* [Charlie]
    * The 2026 date is all about Protected Audience beacons.
    * For Attribution Reporting, we have event-level and aggregate-level. There is no current plan to deprecate. We are trying to get event-level into PATCG principles. 
    * Event-level for Protected Audience has different privacy protections (k-anon).
    * Best to have these discussions in Protected Audience calls.
    * One gap relevant to Attribution Reporting is that the integration with Protected Audience is with beacons. Google owes an initial proposal.
    * Something like: allow to generate histograms through a different hook in Protected Audience.
