# Attribution Reporting API

Mon Oct 30, 2023 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer: Akash Nadan

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc:



* [Joon]: MTA use-cases
* [Charlie: follow-up from the PAM call] Dense histograms in ARA.
    * [https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/private-ad-measurement/issues/9](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/private-ad-measurement/issues/9)
    * 
* [Charlie]: follow-ups from [#974](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/974)?


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
2. Sid Sahoo (Google Chrome)
3. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
4. Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)
5. Michal Kalisz (RTB House)
6. Nan Lin (Google Chrome)
7. Akash Nadan (Google chrome)
8. Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
9. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
10. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)
11. 


# Notes



* Best Practices/use-cases for API use in regards to MTA
    * Joon: if we are dividing exposed vs unexposed, based on the github, ARA is mainly for the path of going through the publisher and then advertiser. Is there a way to compare exposed vs unexposed?
    * Charlie: what is exposed vs unexposed
    * Joon: mainly lift or incrementality
    * Charlie: two ways to do incrementality (either with ARA or another API). Your unexposed group needs to be registered event when the group is not being shown ads. Use the output of ARA to differentiate between the exposed and unexposed groups
    * Joon: does the debug cookie only exist when cookies are around?
    * Charlie: Just want to specify the other API for incrementality. The private aggregation API combined with shared storage is the other way to do this similarly to ARA. You have some integration on the publisher side to log the event stream, and private aggregation api would be used to log exposed vs unexposed.
    * Charlie: Regarding debug keys, they link source and trigger with a high cardinality identifier in the clear in the event level stream. That allows you to link the user across both those contexts. This is only available while cookies exist. No concrete plan to keep debug keys around after 3pcd. If you are using the debug keys to do a join across the contexts, you will not be able to after they go away with 3pcd. If there is a use case you are using them for, that isn’t for 3rd party tracking, then please consider filing a github issue, because can then consider extending or changing the behavior.
    * Joon: last question, ad tech is treated as a trusted side. Only on the browser the join can happen. But doesn’t ad tech also have that information.
    * Charlie: These APIs were designed to provide useful opt out event when the ad tech can’t perform joins on their end. Some browsers have already deprecated 3rd party cookies ad chrome plans to in the future. So we wanted to provide a way to do core business operations without cross site tracking. In the future you can expect this behavior (debug key related) to degrade/go away
* Follow up from the PAM call: [https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/private-ad-measurement/issues/9](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/private-ad-measurement/issues/9)
    * Charlie: How are folk planning on using the key space for ARA. Are you planning on describing your keys in a dense way. I have heard mixed things users. Are you planning on performing some sort of mapping. The reason for the ask, is to provide some feedback to the Apple PAM proposal. Want to understand  how possible it is to go from a high cardinality mapping to something else. Needed if we want to be able to convert ARA output to PAM output. In ARA you have a key that consists of labels for different fields like campaign, etc. They want a dense histogram operation in PAM. Want to make sure ARA uses are representable in PAM. 
    * Akash: Is this specific to representing the publisher domains in the key, or is this more general?
    * Charlie: More general. In some sense you need to allocated budget for each portion of your key. Example, half the budget for campaign, and half for location. 5 bits for campaign, 5 bits locations (example). How you manage that scarce space is a challenge that an ad tech needs to do to adopt the API. Advertiser could start a new campaign that then would require changing how the space is used. PAM works where your key space must be dense. PAM has 1 particular surface for specify a dense histogram. We are working with the PAM authors to see if they can align with the ARA surface or if this surface needs to be changed. Trying to understand how ARA can work in the PAM model
    * Akash: Do you have to pre-specify your key space?
    * Charlie: Background on PAM. Every impression gets tagged with an identifier. Example: campaign ID x geo. At conversion time, you list out all possible identifiers you want to measure for that conversion. Example: you want to consider all the campaigns you’re running. At conversion time you list out all the campaigns. And that creates a histogram that is 1K elements long. But you didn’t need to list out all the campaigns at impressions time, like you would in ARA. As long as there is a match at conversion time then it works out, and this creates the dense histogram. The benefit is that you don’t need to do the densification at the ID level. But specifying the ID domain requires sending  a thousand IDs at the impression. Neither approach seems optimal so trying to figure out the best path forward and what PAM should do. There is benefit in PAM and ARA being interoperable. We would not need users of the API to learn different systems
    * Sid: On the conversion side you have a bunch of identifiers, but this could be something other than campaign ID?
    * Charlie: Yes, could be anything else (example ad group)
    * Charlie: A challenge with both APIs, is that you need to maintain a mapping for your dense output space. The complexity can explode. Where should the logic for solving this problem live.
    * Charlie: If you are interested in this, please subscribe to the github issue. We will talk about the encoding options for the dense case and about the ARA key discovery proposal. Related issue: https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/private-ad-measurement/issues/5
* follow-ups from [#974](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/974)
    * Charlie: Wanted to check if there are any follow ups on this github issue? THis is regarding reducing the delays from 10 minutes to instant for aggregate reports. Curious about the extra overhead this might cause for ad techs if they adopted the feature. We are proposing to add a new feature to ARA, where if you opt in to this this feature, you will get a report right away, with a context ID. The downside is that you’ll get reports unconditionally, where they are contributing to an aggregate histogram or not. This would be a lot more null reports. There is a trade off between timeliness and performance because you may get more null reports you need to process in aggregation service. We are looking for feedback.
    * Sid: How does this combine with the other proposal report verification?
    * Charlie: If you opt in to this behavior it is strictly better than report verification. I don’t think there is a reason to support both simultaneously
* &lt;End of meeting>
