# Attribution Reporting API

May 15, 2023 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer: Akash Nadan

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc:



* Admin: google group for meeting invite: [https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-meetings](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-meetings)
* [Charlie]: Cross app and web experiments ([announcement](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-dev/c/7cXZ4x62CmE))
* [Gilad] [Issue 793](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/793): Reject registrations with invalid input instead of setting silent defaults
* [Charlie] [Issue 767](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/767): exposing a bit about tainted redirect chains is problematic. Discuss opt-ins
* [Ad hoc] Finer grained permissioning system


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Brian May (Dstillery)
2. Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
3. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
4. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
5. Nan Lin (Google Chrome)
6. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
7. Akash Nadan (Google Chrome)
8. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
9. Gilad Barkan (Google)
10. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)
11. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)


# Notes

**Admin: google group for meeting invite: **[https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-meetings](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-meetings)



1. Charlie: easier way to get invited to meeting. A new google group. Any one has permission to join. Emails are hidden from everyone else

**[Charlie]: Cross app and web experiments ([announcement](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-dev/c/7cXZ4x62CmE))**



1. Charlie: we are beginning the origin trial in m114 for cross app to web. If you’re interested please register and share feedback

**[Gilad] [Issue 793](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/793): Reject registrations with invalid input instead of setting silent defaults**



1.  Gilad: The Android implementation accepts numeric and string types. Chrome does not allow numeric types. Ad tech may provide a numeric for expiry and it may get changed to a different value instead of being rejected. Maybe explicitly rejecting would be a better indicator that something is wrong
2. Charlie: We should fail the registration rather than a silent default. The more we can make errors more obvious seems better and making sure all of our tooling is up to date. Chrome header validator may be something we could rely on in the future, and it could be aligned with Android. There might be some breakage for setups that are relying on these silent defaults
3. Gilad: if the implementation works on Chrome it should work on Android currently
4. Charlie: on Chrome we currently move to a default if set incorrectly. There could be breakage as we change to rejecting it instead. Not a huge deal because these deployments may actually want to know there is an issue
5. Brian: These deployments definitely want to know if this is setup wrong. This may have an impact on redirects and would be good to support this in debug reports
6. Charlie: the infrastructure for this is mostly setup and we could send something like this if we don’t today. Will think more about how we can support this. Hard to tell during parsing if this is someone that is trying to register with the API
7. Brian: Potential return value in the header for this?
8. Charlie: challenging because the API uses response headers, and debug is opt in. We may be able to get a signal for parse failures
9. Brian: implies the need for a ARA report URL
10. Charlie: We’ll need to figure out how to connect the current infra with this particular failure
11. Brian: people could use this as a way to get information
12. Charlie: a lot of our debug reports are dependent on you having 3rd party cookies
13. Gilad: We already have scenarios of rejection on Chrome
14. Nan: The opt in for debug reporting is part of the parsing. We need to think more about this
15. Charlie: we should file a github issue about how to include parse failures in debug. Would be good to have an error path to show these are happening
16. Existing debug reports (put in chat): [https://wicg.github.io/attribution-reporting-api/#attribution-debug-data](https://wicg.github.io/attribution-reporting-api/#attribution-debug-data)
17. Brian: any way to get a validation report, for setting something up the first time, and get a ping back from the chrome browser, when you think it’s right but it’s not and it silently fails and you don’t know it fails
18. Charlie: if you messed up your header registration, Chrome wouldn’t even know if you meant to call the API. Parsing needs to succeed for Chrome to know you wanted to do this
19. David: you can kinda do that with triggers. You can just register triggers first without sources. Maybe vice versa. With debug reporting you’ll know if the API successfully processed it because i couldn’t attribute it
20. Charlie: we also have success reports. The problem with debug reports is they require 3rd party cookies. We’ll need to think through the post 3pcd signals. We may need an out of band mechanism for opting in to these reports
21. Brian: we could decorate responses with a specific signal
22. Charlie: similar to the current implementation, but the JSON is tricky to parse. We may want to the opt in, in its own separate header, and not need it with the rest of the parsing
23. Brian: we could also combine this. A potential ping if you made contact and another for parsing the whole thing
24. Charlie: we’ll follow up. AI: to file another issue and link from this one

**[Charlie] [Issue 767](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/767): exposing a bit about tainted redirect chains is problematic. Discuss opt-ins**



1. Charlie: non secure hops in the redirect chain. When there is a tainted hop, and then hop back to a secure URL, we want to fail the secure URL, and share a bit that this redirect chain has been tainted. Discussed with security team and they didn’t like it. Leaks cross site info through the redirect chain. Some HTTP origins don’t want their presence to be known. 
2. David: We were going to fail the insecure URL but give subsequent ones a signals
3. Charlie: the automatic signal is what is concerning
4. David: Only the entity that can remediate it perhaps should be the one that is able to get the feedback/signal. 
5. Charlie: getting feedback to the insecure domain is not difficult. It is more of a concern for the other domains. The challenge is that these insecure origins are usually not high touch. There are mechanisms to get them upgraded. But challenge to get them motivated to make the changes.
6. Brian: Should we allow those with partnerships to go resolve this? i.e. those downstream from an insecure domain
7. Charlie: sometimes this is setup by the ad network, and can form a chain, but not everyone in the chain knows the chain
8. Brian: broken chains happen all the time and people remediate them
9. Charlie: the redirect chain isn’t fully broken, it only breaks ARA. And the 3rd party may not even want to use ARA
10. David: Some of the intermediaries don’t even care about ARA potentially
11. Brian: I assume intermediaries might not care, but the advertiser will be concerned eventually
12. Charlie: the silver linings is that there are some mechanisms that make it easier for intermediaries to upgrade to a secure context. But we are still thinking about other mitigations. Considering if this is a blocker for shipping. If it is, we would make this change and update the github status
13. David: is the permission policy currently *
14. Charlie: yes. The top level site can selectively disable the API in specific contexts. Permission policy does have more sophisticated tooling. If there are cases where you think a tighter possibly is needed we can consider this
15. David: if we could build something that gives publishers more agency, that could be good
16. Brian: there was specific interest in this from other pre bid meetings. They may want to switch a partner based on specific info
17. Charlie: We need to investigate further but there may be something more fine grained we could do here. Will need to think through the trade offs
18. Brian: Is there a timing issue as well?
19. Charlie: yes. It is sent in the response header and applies to the entire document. 
20. David: Do you have a sense of when ARA will start going to 100%?
21. Charlie: No precise dates yet, but we have a public timeline. Q3 General availability.
22. David: does general availability mean 100%
23. Charlie: yes
24. David: when will you start increasing the percentage?
25. Charlie: currently we’re at about 5%. Typically once we get approval to ship you no longer have the constraint of being on a small number of pages.
26. David: Is measurement also user controllable?
27.  Charlie: yes there are some control in user privacy settings
28.  Brian: behavior for non-secure requests?
29. Charlie: If you’re secure you can tell the next person in line that this was a request for ARA but insecure requests would break

Akash: Topic regarding VTCs. One thing we are considering is regarding adding more reporting windows for VTCs. Thinking about what reporting windows to test on non-stable channels similar to what we’re doing for click throughs. Any feedback appreciated. I will link the github issue for click-throughs. Any feedback on VTCs regarding those windows please add it to that issue. [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/730](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/730)
