# Attribution Reporting API

Mon April 1st, 2024 @ 8am PT

This doc: bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes

Meet link: https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy

Previous meetings: https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings

Meeting issue: https://githubhttps://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80

* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join W3C and WICG Iif you plan on participating

# Agenda

* Chair: John Delaney
* Scribe volunteer: Arpana Hosabettu

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc:

* Consider allowing the destination limit to favor new sources
https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/1228
* Allow attribution to be scoped smaller than destination site
https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/1229
* FYI source deactivation position change
https://groups.google.com/u/0/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-dev/c/QKtxgcERsT0 

# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)

1. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
2. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
3. Arpana Hosabettu (Google Privacy Sandbox)
4. Rhaime Kim (The New York Times)
5. Elijah Elrod (AdTheorent)
6. Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)
7. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
8. Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
9. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)
10. Vikas Sahu (Google Privacy Sandbox)
11. Maybelline Boon (Google Chrome)
12. Sid Sahoo (Google Privacy Sandbox)

# Notes

* [John] Source destination limit
Number of limits - max destination limit : max number of advertiser site that a source can have
Once limit is hit, future impressions are rejected until impression expire or attributed
Option: Change this to FIFO queue to remove old sources instead. 
* [David Dabbs] If the user is clicking a lot (expected) then old sources are kicked out.  Is there any input publisher side can give or is this Chrome decided sequencing. Is it silent?
* [John] There is a debugging report but it could fail.
Are there any reporting API that publishers could get? 
* [John] Reporting endpoint would get to know but we could look into it
* [Arpana Hosabettu] API supports last-touch attribution, so if we continue with the limit then you’d still lose out the latest sources
Is this a privacy limitation or a performance limit?
* [John] Yes- it is a privacy limit, limits the scope of how many sites one can learn about the user actions and eventually reconstructing browser activity
* [David] You’d have to have someone collaborating? 
* [John] Pervasive third-party, embedded on various sites 
Protects from some scaled entity from learning a lot about the user
Allow attribution to be scoped smaller than destination site
https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/1229
* [Vikas] Last touch attribution across all sources. Example : Products - apparel and electronics. This allows decorating the sources with these information so the last-touch attribution is scoped to these products instead of current behavior where a last-touch is picked across sources
* [David Dabbs] Is it origin based? It’s a welcome change
* [Vikas] Not origin based but a difference mechanism but yes allows more flexibility
* [John] There is filtering so attribution does not incorrectly match so they fail. This allows to alleviate that but there will still be limitations imposed to make this privacy-safe. Is that correct?
* [Vikas] Yes, but need to look into from user level - assumption is this is at a fairly small number of scopes per advertiser.
* [Arpana] Are there any implications for noise?
* [Vikas] Not right now, the noising is based on number of states - it could be customized across Google 
* [John] Can we publish the API spec on github so this group can comment on the lift in terms of API changes and complexity?
* [Arpana] Yes, we can follow-up with that and bring this topic back up to this forum
* [John] https://groups.google.com/u/0/a/chromium.org/g/attribution-reporting-api-dev/c/QKtxgcERsT0
* [David] Spec reflects that even if the change is not in the stable release ?
* [John] In general for Chrome specifically, spec will be further ahead than what’s in the release


* [Matt Lamont] Will there be event-level-report be removed in the future?
* [John] No plans right now, its used an overloaded term across APIs, for ARA event-level-report no current plans
