# Attribution Reporting API

Mon July 8, 2024 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://githubhttps://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer: Charlie Harrison

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc:



* Jianzhong Chen: Programmatic way to fetch impressions and conversions for automated testing. Regarding [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/1207](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/1207)
* Jianzhong Chen: Programmatic way to accelerate time during testing.
* Michal Kalisz: Cross web-app status.


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Jianzhong Chen (Google Attribution)
2. Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
3. Sid Sahoo (Google Chrome)
4. Michal Kalisz (RTB House)
5. Wojciech Rybak (RTB House)
6. (ID Privacy)
7. Akash Nadan (Google Chrome)
8. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
9. Andrew Chasin (Google Chrome) 
10. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
11. Maybelline Boon (Google Privacy Sandbox)
12. Robert Rkubis (Google Privacy Sandbox)
13. Laura Morinigo (Samsung)


# Notes


## Jianzhong Chen: Programmatic way to fetch impressions and conversions for automated testing. Regarding [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/1207](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/1207)



* How can we get better registrations from Chrome?
* We have automation tests to test interactions for Chrome registration API, aggregated / non-aggregated reports. For reports it’s fine. We can get them through the API. For impression / conversion registrations, it is only visible to the internal database
* The only way we can check the entries is through chrome://attribution-internals UI page. Which is what we have been doing.
* Starting from earlier this year, some redesign of this UI, making the testing scraping unreliable / stable. Earlier with some discussions w/ , we could think is there any programmatic way instead of relying on the web UI from the internal page
* One of the questions Andrew asked: why do we need these fields, instead of just relying on reports?
    * We have seen previous issues from Google Attribution side that the report can be lost - we want to find the source cause. It could be that the impression is not correctly registers, conversion not registered, or matching is not working
    * Really hard to figure out which of these cases
    * We have previous issues inside Chrome that this could be an issue
* Our automation does source impressions, trigger registration. We say we want to receive the reports, and check that everything is expected
* Andrew P: Is there a reason verbose debug reports don’t satisfy the need?
* Jainzhong: it is not just mismatch, that is just one of the reason
* Andrew: but you can get verbose report for source failures. It should cover many cases
* Jainzhong: is it part of the report being sent through the ad-tech API? in order to get the report being sent, we need the report to begin with
* Andrew: you can opt into receiving debug reports even when the source isn’t stored. It does require some set up and there are some edge cases, but it should cover common cases.
* Jainzhong: what does the verbose report provide? Is it saying the source / trigger is not registered, or does it have details of mismatch. 
* Andrew: We have both. If the source was rejected, it will include that error, similar if there is an issue for trigger registration, it will emit the error. Here is a list of all errors: [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/verbose_debugging_reports.md](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/verbose_debugging_reports.md). For some cases this may not be sufficient, but it would be good to integrate because this is “first class” part of the API
* Jainzhong: through this verbose report we are not able to see
    * Here is the registered impression, but … essentially what we see is we’re trying to send some impression. We don’t get it, we want to know the reason sometimes. Some fields could be wrong, or misconfigured.
    * We could get the reason but not the detail, what exactly is the source / trigger
* Andrew: these reports would give you the source event ID
* Charlie: why is source event ID insufficient?
* Jainzhong: most of the time is could be sufficient. DUring the test we want to see after we trigger the source events, are those being registered in CHrome internally.
* Charlie: documentation of edge cases?
* Andrew: will take an AI to post to mailing list
* David Dabbs: You reference test? Is this some internal test? Or at scale in the wild. A local test could attach to the SQLite DB. Does that make sense?
* Jianzhong: more a scenario test. We want to test the whole flow. More like functional test. Trigger several source, triggers, check reports.
* Andrew: you could inspect SQLite db, just like they are currently inspecting HTML of the internals UI. It is internal to Chrome, not interoperable. Even in Chrome itself the db structure is not stable. Good approach to have a standardized integration w/ webdriver if we think there’s a benefit.
* Sid Sahoo: Both the debug reports / verbose are enabled w/ cookies. Would we be blocked on this approach after 3PCD. Could this be sustained post 3PCD?
* Charlie: …
* Andrew: also we have some aggregatable debug reports. We could just standardize this in webdriver directly if we’re going to have something exposed for testing anyway.
* Jainzhong: how about Android Privacy Sandbox?
* Andrew: Android ARA is OS-specific and not part of our specification, but they have some debug reporting capabilities
* Jainzhong: can go back to check if we can use verbose debug reports to satisfy the tests
* Andrew: Verbose debug reports have gained a lot of functionality in the last year


## Jianzhong Chen: Programmatic way to accelerate time during testing.



* Jainzhong: related. Not only from the ARA pov, right now we register impressions / triggers. Try to have a wait between source and trigger so that sources can be timed out, etc. Just using CHrome we cannot speed up time to test this scenario.
* Andrew: agree this is a big gap in testing functionality. We need webdriver / Chrome and other browsers to expose this across the whole browser, not just for ARA specifically. ARA interacts with time as it is used by other components in the browser. As far as I know webdriver doesn’t have a concept of this, we would want this to be standardized. Hesitant to expose ARA-only control given it cannot affect cookies.
* Jainzhong: what discussion do we need to elaborate?
* Andrew: the webdriver issue repo / regular meeting, etc.
* Jainzhong: any alternative?
* Charlie: change system time while Chrome is closed?
* Andrew: agree with that and if you do find bugs, we’d be interested to hear about them. We can also run chrome with no delay.
* Jainzhong: yeah we run debug mode with no delay, but no way to test the delay itself


## Michal Kalisz: Cross web-app status.



* Basic q about what is the current status of the possibility to mix two technologies
* Use ARA with Chrome and inside app. Register source in Chrome and trigger conversion in app, and other way around. We are thinking of testing this, and especially on web we gradually add some new functions, would like to understand what happens if it goes at a separate speed?
    * CHrome starts to support some new feature, under development, Android doesn’t support yet.
    * How to correlate these two projects?
* Charlie: 
    * Answering question of how we operate between 2 systems. No easy answer
    * We are trying to keep Android and Chrome implementations interoperable, but they do get released at different speeds. Also depends on android versions being targeted
    * Android will most likely have eventual consistency with Chrome changes. And we try not to make backwards incompatible changes. There maybe some tradeoffs depending on version that the feature is released on
    * This is not so different from just Android itself (vs. comparing Chrome and Android). Features are released  on specific Android versions
    * One possibility is to wait to adopt a feature till it has market share adoption on most Android versions. Alternative is to adopt additive features
    * We are open to feedback on any additional adoption feedback for Android and Chrome
* Michal: what is the current status of the headers that are supported? How should we interpret it? IS it possible to test on both sides: app&lt;>web and web&lt;>app?
* Charlie: It should be possible both ways.
* Andrew: Are you saying you are getting an ARA header that says OS is supported?
* Michal: based on user-agent on Linux it has a header that shows OS as a supported option
* Andrew: This is potentially a bug and we can look into it. Could you file a bug with http request headers you are receiving
* Charlie: No plans to support non-android platforms currently
* David: potentially a client user webview and changing the user-agent string
* Charlie: user could potentially change the user-agent through the settings options
* Michal: It is now clear, and will double check on the change
